CIS Benchmarks July 2025 Update Welcome More CIS Product Logins Insights View All Insights Articles Case Studies Podcasts Spotlights Webinars White Papers Support Sign In FAQ Contact Support Privacy Terms of Use Log In Sign Up Log In Sign Up Welcome More CIS Product Logins Insights View All Insights Articles Case Studies Podcasts Spotlights Webinars White Papers Support Sign In FAQ Contact Support Privacy Terms of Use … Home Insights Articles CIS Benchmarks July 2025 Update Articles CIS Benchmarks July 2025 Update Published on 07/08/25 The following CIS Benchmarks &reg; and CIS Build Kits have been updated or recently released. We've highlighted the major updates below. Each Benchmark and Build Kit includes a full changelog that references all changes. CIS Benchmarks Updated Last Month CIS Apple iOS 17 Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Apple iPadOS 17 Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Apple iOS 18 Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Apple iPadOS 18 Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Apple macOS 13.0 Ventura Benchmark v3.1.0 CIS Apple macOS 14.0 Sonoma Benchmark v2.1.0 CIS Apple macOS 15.0 Sequoia Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Alibaba Cloud Foundation Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS Cisco IOS XE 16.x Benchmark v2.2.0 CIS Microsoft Azure Compute Services Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Benchmark v1.8.0 CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Autopilot Benchmark v1.2.0 CIS Google Workspace Foundations Benchmark v1.3.0 CIS IBM AIX 7 Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Microsoft Windows 10 Stand-alone Benchmark v4.0.0 CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2019 Benchmark v4.0.0 CIS PostgreSQL 15 Benchmark v1.2.0 CIS PostgreSQL 16 Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform v1.8.0 CIS Apple iOS 17 Benchmark v1.1.0 We are pleased to announce the final update to the CIS Apple iOS 17 Benchmark v1.1.0. This final update does not contain new guidance. Thank you to the CIS Apple iOS Community for contributing to past versions of this Benchmark. Download the CIS Apple iOS 17 Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apple iPadOS 17 Benchmark v1.1.0 We are pleased to announce the final update to the CIS Apple iPadOS 17 Benchmark v1.1.0 This final update does not contain new guidance. Thank you to the CIS Apple iOS Community for contributing to past versions of this Benchmark. Download the Apple iPadOS 17 Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apple iOS 18 Benchmark v1.1.0 A lot of effort has gone into analyzing and adding content to this Benchmark. Here are some highlights of the work that was done: Guidance created around Apple Intelligence The Apple Intelligence recommendations are inline with the macOS recommendations Updated guidance for features added to the operating system since the initial release A huge thank you to the CIS Apple iOS Community for making this Benchmark happen. Special thanks to Pierluigi Falcone and Ron Colvin. Download the CIS Apple iOS 18 Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apple iPadOS 18 Benchmark v1.1.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the updated CIS Apple iPadOS 18 Benchmark v1.1.0. A lot of effort has gone into analyzing and adding content to this Benchmark. Here are some highlights of the work that was done: Guidance created around Apple Intelligence The Apple Intelligence recommendations are inline with the macOS recommendations Updated guidance for features added to the operating system since the initial release A huge thank you to the CIS Apple iOS Community for making this Benchmark happen. Special thanks to Pierluigi Falcone and Ron Colvin. Download the CIS Apple iPadOS 18 Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apple macOS 13.0 Ventura Benchmark v3.1.0 Major milestones for the update: Updated guidance for features added to the operating system since the initial release Change to guidance around dictation and Siri usage Added missing functionality that was not auditable in previous versions of the Benchmarks Special thanks to Ron Colvin, William Harrison, Bob Gendler, and John Mahlman. Download the CIS Apple macOS 13.0 Ventura Benchmark v3.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS Work here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apple macOS 14.0 Sonoma Benchmark v2.1.0 Major milestones for the update: Updated guidance for features added to the operating system since the initial release Change to guidance around dictation and Siri usage Added missing functionality that was not auditable in previous versions of the Benchmarks Thanks to the Community for the tickets submitted for the changes that went into this long awaited update to the Benchmark. Special thanks to Ron Colvin, William Harrison, Bob Gendler, and John Mahlman. Download the CIS Apple macOS 14.0 Sonoma Benchmark v2.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apple macOS 15.0 Sequoia Benchmark v1.1.0 Here's a quick overview of the key improvements we've made in this update: Apple Intelligence security guidance added Updated guidance for features added to the operating system since the initial release Change to guidance around dictation and Siri usage Added missing functionality that was not auditable in previous versions of the Benchmarks Special Thanks to Ron Colvin, William Harrison, Bob Gendler, and John Mahlman. Download the CIS Apple macOS 15.0 Sequoia Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Alibaba Cloud Foundation Benchmark v2.0.0 Here's a quick overview of the key improvements we've made in this update: Updated All CIS Critical Controls Mapping Multiple changes in console steps for Audit and remediation Updated to meet current password policy Move a couple recommendation to L1 Added CLI audit methods Download the CIS Alibaba Cloud Foundation Benchmark v2.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Cisco IOS XE 16.x Benchmark v2.2.0 We are excited to announce the Final Release of CIS Cisco IOS XE 16.x Benchmark v2.2.0 Addressed 2 tickets regarding AAC false fails Thank you to the CIS Cisco Community for making this final Benchmark release happen. Download the CIS Cisco IOS XE 16.x Benchmark v2.2.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Microsoft Azure Compute Services Benchmark v2.0.0 Summary of changes in this latest version: &ldquo;App Service&rdquo; section now contains sub-sections specific to: App Service Apps, App Service Deployment Slots, Function Apps, Function App Deployment Slots. 71 Recommendations Added 29 Recommendations Updated &ldquo;Cloud Services&rdquo; Section removed (product now retired) 120 Tickets Addressed The full changelog is included at the end of both the PDF and DOCX files. Many thanks to the entire CIS Microsoft Azure Community for another successful release! As always, the contributions of the members of the Azure Community are greatly appreciated and have made this release and its many improvements possible! Special thanks to our prolific community editor Rachel Rice for her excellent contributions which are too numerous to list! Special thanks also to our new community member Rogier Carpier for helping us hone recommendations for network access. Download the Microsoft Azure Compute Services Benchmark v2.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Goog
