CIS Benchmarks March 2026 Update CIS Portal Login CIS Hardened Images &reg; Support CIS WorkBench Sign In Alert Level: guarded Company Back Company Who We Are CIS is an independent, nonprofit organization with a mission to create confidence in the connected world. About Us Leadership Principles Leadership Team Testimonials Media Events Contact Us Solutions Back Solutions Secure Your Organization CIS Critical Security Controls® Prioritized & simplified best practices CIS Controls Community Help develop and maintain the Controls CIS RAM Information security risk assessment method CIS CSAT Assess & measure Controls implementation ThreatWA™ Insights into emerging cyber & physical threats CIS SecureSuite® Platform Assess and measure CIS Controls implementation and conformance to the CIS Benchmarks Secure Specific Platforms CIS Benchmarks™ 100+ vendor-neutral configuration guides CIS Benchmarks Community Develop & update secure configuration guides CIS-CAT®Pro Assessor Assess system conformance to CIS Benchmarks CIS Hardened Images® Virtual images hardened to CIS Benchmarks on cloud service provider marketplaces Track Specific Threats Industries Your industry's specific threats & needs Topics Dive deeper into specific cybersecurity topics Secure Cyber City™ Expertise for cybersecurity resilience and community empowerment CIS SecureSuite® (Multi-Year Discounts Available) Start secure and stay secure with integrated cybersecurity tools and resources designed to help you implement CIS Benchmarks and CIS Controls Learn More Apply Now U.S. State, Local, Tribal & Territorial Governments Memberships MS-ISAC® Cybersecurity resource for SLTT Governments EI-ISAC® Critical cybersecurity resource for the nation's SLTT election offices State Resources Whole-of-State Security Enabling collaboration and shared responsibility across all levels of government Services for Members Albert Network Monitoring® Cost-effective Intrusion Detection System Managed Security Services Security monitoring of enterprises devices CIS Managed Detection and Response™ (CIS MDR) Device-level protection and response CIS CyberMarket® Savings on training and software Malicious Domain Blocking and Reporting Plus Prevent connection to harmful web domains View All CIS Services View All Products & Services Insights Back Insights Insights Explore trending articles, expert perspectives, real-world applications, and more from the best minds in cybersecurity and IT. Advisories Blog Case Studies Spotlights Newsletters Podcasts Webinars Whitepapers View All Insights Join CIS Back Join CIS Get Involved Join us on our mission to secure online experiences for all. Become a CIS member, partner, or volunteer—and explore our career opportunities. CIS SecureSuite® Membership Multi-State ISAC (MS-ISAC®) CIS CyberMarket® Vendors CIS Communities Our Partners Careers Home Insights Blog Posts CIS Benchmarks March 2026 Update CIS Benchmarks March 2026 Update The following CIS Benchmarks and CIS Build Kits have been updated or recently released. We've highlighted the major updates below. Each Benchmark and Build Kit includes a full changelog that references all changes. CIS Benchmarks Updated Last Month CIS Microsoft Windows 11 Enterprise Benchmark v5.0.0 CIS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Foundations Benchmark v3.1.0 CIS Apache Cassandra 5.0 Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Apache Cassandra 4.1 Benchmark v1.2.0 CIS Apache Cassandra 4.0 Benchmark v1.3.0 CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2022 Benchmark v5.0.0 CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2025 Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS GitHub Benchmark v1.2.0 CIS Microsoft Windows 11 Enterprise Benchmark v5.0.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the updated CIS Microsoft Windows 11 Enterprise Benchmark v5.0.0 . Our team has devoted significant time and effort to enhance the content of this benchmark, ensuring it remains relevant and valuable to members. Here's a quick overview of the key improvements we've made in this update: Added 9 new security settings Updated 23 settings Removed 18 settings Renamed 1 setting Moved, added, and removed sections due to updated ADMX templates A change log detailing the modifications made is included in the Word Doc and PDF versions of the Benchmark. A huge thank you to the CIS Windows Community and Windows Team for making this Benchmark happen. Special thanks to Haemish Edgerton and Aaron Margosis. Download the CIS Microsoft Windows 11 Enterprise Benchmark v5.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Foundations Benchmark v3.1.0 We are proud to announce the release of a minor update to the CIS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Foundations Benchmark v3.1.0 .Version 3.1.0 includes minor adjustments to maintain alignment with recent changes in the OCI platform&rsquo;s user interface and event structures. These changes ensure continued accuracy and reliability of benchmark results, reflecting the current OCI experience. No other functionality or evaluation criteria are affected. Thank you to Josh Hammer, for this update to keep the guidance current. Download the CIS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Foundations Benchmark v3.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apache Cassandra 5.0 Benchmark v1.1.0 We are Excited to Announce the release of CIS Apache Cassandra 5.0 Benchmark v 1.1.0. This Benchmark includes support for Apache Cassandra 5.0.6 All recommendations have been reviewed, tested, and validated to support v5.0.6 This Benchmark exemplifies the great things a community of users, vendors, and subject matter experts can accomplish through consensus collaboration. The CIS community thanks the entire consensus team with special recognition to the following individuals who contributed greatly to the creation of this guide: Joeseph Testa, Tony Wilwerding, and Chriag Shah. Download the CIS Apache Cassandra 5.0 Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apache Cassandra 4.1 Benchmark v1.2.0 We are Excited to Announce the release of CIS Apache Cassandra 4.1 Benchmark v 1.2.0! This Benchmark includes support for Apache Cassandra 4.1.10 All recommendations have been reviewed, tested, and validated to support v4.1.10 The CIS community thanks the entire consensus team with special recognition to the following individuals who contributed greatly to the creation of this guide: Joeseph Testa, Tony Wilwerding, and Chriag Shah. Download the CIS Apache Cassandra 4.1 Benchmark v 1.2.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apache Cassandra 4.0 Benchmark v1.3.0 We are happy to announce the release of CIS Apache Cassandra 4.0 Benchmark v1.3.0! This Benchmark includes support for Apache Cassandra 4.0.19 All recommendations have been reviewed, tested, and validated to support v4.0.19 The CIS community thanks the entire consensus team with special recognition to the following individuals who contributed greatly to the creation of this guide. Special thanks to Joeseph Testa, Tony Wilwerding, and Chriag Shah. Download the CIS Apache Cassandra 4.0 Benchmark v 1.3.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2022 Benchmark v5.0.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the updated CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2022 Benchmark v5.0.0 . Our team has devoted significant time and effort to enhance the content of this benchmark, ensuring it remains relevant and valuable to members. Here's a quick overview of the key improvements we've made in this update: Added 3 new security settings Updated 16 settings Removed 15 settings Renamed 1 setting. Moved, added, and removed sections due to updated ADMX templates A changelog detailing the modifications made is included in the Word Doc and PDF versions of the Benchmark. A huge thank you to the CIS Windows Community and Windows Team for making this Benchmark happen. Download the CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2022 Benchmark v5.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2025 Benchmark v2.0.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the updated CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2025 Benchmark v2.0.0. Our team has devoted significant time and effort to enhance the content of this Benchmark, ensuring it remains relevant and valuable to members. Here's a quick overview of the key improvements we've made in this update: Added 8 new security settings Updated 17 settings Removed 17 settings Renamed 1 setting Moved, added, and removed sections due to updated ADMX templates A changelog detailing the modifications made is included in the Word Doc and PDF versions of the Benchmark. A huge thank you to the CIS Windows Community and Windows Team for making this benchmark happen. Special thanks to Haemish Edgerton and Aaron Margosis. Download the CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2025 Benchmark v2.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS GitHub Benchmark v1.2.0 We are pleased to announce the publication of CIS GitHub Benchmark V1.2.0 . This release addresses GitHub versions up to and including V3.18. This version includes updates and edits to: Authentication to access the build environment Ensuring Webhooks are secured Validating the recommendations are relevant to the latest version V3.18 Thanks to the community for providing recommendations, edits, and suggestions that have improved this Benchmark. Special thanks to Matt Reagan, Tony Wilwerding, and James Osborne. Download the CIS GitHub Benchmark v1.2.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. New CIS Benchmark Released Last Month CIS Microsoft Defender Antivirus Benchmark v1.0.0 CIS Microsoft Intune for Edge Benchmark v1.0.0 CIS Microsoft Defender Antivirus Benchmark v1.0.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the new CIS Microsoft Defender Antivirus Benchmark v1.0.0 . Our team has devoted significant time and effort to enhance the content of this Benchmark, ensuring it remains relevant and valuable to members. A huge thank you to the CIS Windows Community and Windows Team for making this benchmark happen. Special thanks to Haemish Edgerton, Aaron Margosis, Martin Himken, Johannes Kristjansson, and James Robinson. Download the CIS Microsoft Defender Antivirus Benchmark v1.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Microsoft Intune for Edge Benchmark v1.0.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the new CIS Microsoft Intune for Edge Benchmark v1.0.0. Our team has devoted significant time and effort to enhance the content of this benchmark, ensuring it remains relevant and valuable to members. A huge thank you to the CIS Windows Community and Windows Team for making this Benchmark happen. Special thanks to Phil Chatham, Martin Himken, Johannes Kristjansson, JJ Milner, and James Robinson. Download the CIS Microsoft Intune for Edge Benchmark v1.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. New CIS Build Kit Released Last Month CIS Microsoft Windows 11 Enterprise Benchmark v5.0.0 CIS Microsoft Intune for Edge Benchmark v1.0.0 CIS Apple iOS 18.0 Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS Apple iOS 26 Benchmark v1.0.0 CIS Apple iPadOS 18.0 Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS Apple iPadOS 26 Benchmark v1.0.0 CIS Apple macOS 14.0 Sonoma Benchmark v3.0.0 CIS Apple macOS 15.0 Sequoia Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS Apple macOS 26 Tahoe Benchmark v1.0.0 CIS Debian Linux 13 Benchmark v1.0.0 CIS Microsoft Defender Antivirus v1.0.0 CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2022 Benchmark v5.0.0 CIS Microsoft Windows Server 2025 Benchmark v2.0.0 Get involved by helping us develop content, review recommendations, and test CIS Benchmarks. Join a community today! If you're interested, please reach out to us at [email&#160;protected] . You can also learn more on the CIS Benchmarks Community page . Download CIS Benchmarks As of June 23, 2025, the MS-ISAC has introduced a fee-based membership. Any potential reference to no-cost MS-ISAC services no longer applies. Download CIS Benchmarks Don't Miss Our Webinar: M365 Scanning for Power Users via the Command Line Register Now About Leadership Board Communities Careers Media Testimonials Events US Cyber Challenge Support Contact Products And Tools CIS Critical Security Controls® CIS Benchmarks® CIS Hardened Images® CIS SecureSuite® CIS SecureSuite® Platform CIS-CAT® Lite CIS-CAT® Pro Assessor CIS RAM CIS-hosted CSAT CIS WorkBench ThreatWA™ For SLTT Governments MS-ISAC® EI-ISAC® CIS Services® Albert Network Monitoring Managed Security Services Managed Detection and Response Malicious Domain Blocking and Reporting Plus CIS CyberMarket® Explore Blog Whitepapers Newsletters Webinars Case Studies Spotlights Videos Copyright © 2026 Center for Internet Security® Privacy Notice Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn
