CIS Benchmarks January 2026 Update CIS Portal Login CIS Hardened Images &reg; Support CIS WorkBench Sign In Alert Level: guarded Company Back Company Who We Are CIS is an independent, nonprofit organization with a mission to create confidence in the connected world. About Us Leadership Principles Leadership Team Testimonials Media Events Contact Us Solutions Back Solutions Secure Your Organization CIS Critical Security Controls® Prioritized & simplified best practices CIS Controls Community Help develop and maintain the Controls CIS RAM Information security risk assessment method CIS CSAT Assess & measure Controls implementation ThreatWA™ Insights into emerging cyber & physical threats CIS SecureSuite® Platform Assess and measure CIS Controls implementation and conformance to the CIS Benchmarks Secure Specific Platforms CIS Benchmarks™ 100+ vendor-neutral configuration guides CIS Benchmarks Community Develop & update secure configuration guides CIS-CAT®Pro Assessor Assess system conformance to CIS Benchmarks CIS Hardened Images® Virtual images hardened to CIS Benchmarks on cloud service provider marketplaces Track Specific Threats Industries Your industry's specific threats & needs Topics Dive deeper into specific cybersecurity topics Secure Cyber City™ Expertise for cybersecurity resilience and community empowerment CIS SecureSuite® (Multi-Year Discounts Available) Start secure and stay secure with integrated cybersecurity tools and resources designed to help you implement CIS Benchmarks and CIS Controls Learn More Apply Now U.S. State, Local, Tribal & Territorial Governments Memberships MS-ISAC® Cybersecurity resource for SLTT Governments EI-ISAC® Critical cybersecurity resource for the nation's SLTT election offices State Resources Whole-of-State Security Enabling collaboration and shared responsibility across all levels of government Services for Members Albert Network Monitoring® Cost-effective Intrusion Detection System Managed Security Services Security monitoring of enterprises devices CIS Managed Detection and Response™ (CIS MDR) Device-level protection and response CIS CyberMarket® Savings on training and software Malicious Domain Blocking and Reporting Plus Prevent connection to harmful web domains View All CIS Services View All Products & Services Insights Back Insights Insights Explore trending articles, expert perspectives, real-world applications, and more from the best minds in cybersecurity and IT. Advisories Blog Case Studies Spotlights Newsletters Podcasts Webinars Whitepapers View All Insights Join CIS Back Join CIS Get Involved Join us on our mission to secure online experiences for all. Become a CIS member, partner, or volunteer—and explore our career opportunities. CIS SecureSuite® Membership Multi-State ISAC (MS-ISAC®) CIS CyberMarket® Vendors CIS Communities Our Partners Careers Home Insights Blog Posts CIS Benchmarks January 2026 Update CIS Benchmarks January 2026 Update The following CIS Benchmarks and CIS Build Kits have been updated or recently released. We've highlighted the major updates below. Each Benchmark and Build Kit includes a full changelog that references all changes. CIS Benchmarks Updated Last Month CIS Wind River eLxr 12 Benchmark v1.2.0 CIS NGINX Benchmark v3.0.0 CIS Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Benchmark v1.9.0 CIS Microsoft SQL Server 2019 Benchmark v1.5.2 CIS Fortigate 7.0.x Benchmark v1.4.0 CIS IBM CICS Transaction Server 6.1 Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Oracle MySQL 8.4.x LTS Community Server Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Oracle MySQL 8.4.x LTS Enterprise Benchmark v1.1.0 CIS Oracle Database 19c Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS Apple iOS 18.0 Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS Apple iPadOS 18.0 Benchmark v2.0.0 CIS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE) Benchmark v1.8.0 CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Autopilot Benchmark v1.3.0 CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Benchmark v1.9.0 CIS Wind River eLxr 12 Benchmark v1.2.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the updated CIS Wind River eLxr 12 Benchmark v1.2.0 . A lot of effort has gone into analyzing and adding content to this Benchmark. Here are some highlights of the work that was done: Added: Four sections 80 Recommendations Dropped: Eight Sections 81 Recommendations Updated: Seven Sections 227 Recommendations A special thank you to Binghui Ji, the Linux Community, and the Nix team. Without their hard work, this Benchmark would not have been possible. Download the CIS Wind River eLxr 12 Benchmark v1.2.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS NGINX Benchmark v3.0.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the new CIS NGINX Benchmark v3.0.0 The team dedicated considerable time and effort to enhance the content of this benchmark. Some highlights are: This is a prose only Benchmark release. Updated and added several audit and remediation procedures. Addressed and removed obsolete recommendations. A change log detailing the modifications made is included in the Doc and PDF versions of the Benchmark. A huge and special thanks to Stephan Wenderlich for making this Benchmark happen. Download the CIS NGINX Benchmark v3.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Benchmark v1.9.0 We are happy to announce the publication of CIS Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Benchmark v1.9.0 This Benchmark includes support for all current OpenShift version releases Over 15 recommendations have been edited and enhanced. The Benchmark and recommendations have been updated to support the latest version of OpenShift v4.20. A huge thank you to the CIS Kubernetes Community for making this happen. Special thanks to Mark Larinde and the Red Hat OpenShift team for their dedication to making this Benchmark the best it can be. Download the CIS Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Benchmark v1.9.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Microsoft SQL Server 2019 Benchmark v1.5.2 We are excited to announce the publication of a bug fix release for CIS Microsoft SQL Server 2019 Benchmark v1.5.2: Updated Audit procedure and fixed artifact issue for one recommendation to be included in the upcoming CIS-CAT release. A change log detailing the modifications made is included in the Doc and PDF versions of the Benchmark. Download the CIS Microsoft SQL Server 2019 Benchmark v1.5.2 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Fortigate 7.0.x Benchmark v1.4.0 We are pleased to announce the Final Release of CIS Fortigate 7.0.x Benchmark v1.4.0 . This Benchmark has no changes from the previous Benchmark. But a lot of work went into ensuring that it was up to date and accurate. Special thanks to Eric Leong for authoring this Benchmark and Tabitha Haug for her diligent efforts to verify the settings were accurate. Download the CIS Fortigate 7.0.x Benchmark v1.4.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS IBM CICS Transaction Server 6.1 Benchmark v1.1.0 Here are some highlights of the work that was done: MOVED 2 Recommendations UPDATED 4 Recommendations A special thank you to Mark Pocock and Graham Eames. Without their hard work, this Benchmark would not have been possible. Download the CIS IBM CICS Transaction Server 6.1 Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Oracle MySQL 8.4.x LTS Community Server Benchmark v1.1.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the updated CIS Oracle MySQL 8.4 Community Server Benchmark v1.1.0 Benchmark. Here are some highlights of the work that was done: Addressed 8 tickets. Updated a recommendation for FIPS 140-2 Open_SSL Cryptography. Updated to remove unsupported configurations. Addressed issues reported with the Automated Assessment Content. A change log detailing the modifications made is included in the Doc and PDF versions of the Benchmark. A huge thank you to the CIS Oracle MySQL Benchmark Community for making this Benchmark happen. Special thanks to Mike Frank and Oracle. Download the CIS Oracle MySQL 8.4.x LTS Community Server Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Oracle MySQL 8.4.x LTS Enterprise Benchmark v1.1.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the updated CIS Oracle MySQL 8.4 Enterprise Edition Benchmark v1.1.0 Benchmark. Here are some highlights of the work that was done: Addressed 9 tickets. Updated a recommendation for FIPS 140-2 OpenSSL Cryptography. Updated to remove desupported configurations. Addressed issues reported with the Automated Assessment Content. A change log detailing the modifications made is included in the Doc and PDF versions of the Benchmark. A huge thank you to the CIS Oracle MySQL Benchmark Community for making this Benchmark happen. Special thanks to Mike Frank and Oracle. Download the CIS Oracle MySQL 8.4.x LTS Enterprise Server Benchmark v1.1.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Oracle Database 19c Benchmark v2.0.0 We are excited to release the update CIS Oracle Database 19c Benchmark v2.0.0 ! This represents a significant overhaul of the benchmark to backport changes from Oracle Database 23ai as well as incorporate new insights and guidance from the community. A huge thanks to the Oracle Database Security team as well as to: Emad Al-Mousa Nelly Chng Alexander Kornbrust Russ Lowenthal Jay Mehta Download the CIS Oracle Database 19c Benchmark v2.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apple iOS 18.0 Benchmark v2.0.0 We are excited to release the final update for the CIS Apple iOS 18 Benchmark v2.0.0 . This final update has minor fixes and grammatical updates. A huge thank you to the CIS Apple iOS Community for making this Benchmark happen. Special thanks to Pierluigi Falcone and Ron Colvin. Download the CIS Apple iOS 18.0 Benchmark v2.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Apple iPadOS 18.0 Benchmark v2.0.0 We are excited to release the final update for the CIS Apple iPadOS 18 Benchmark v2.0.0 . This final update has minor fixes and grammatical updates. A huge thank you to the CIS Apple iOS Community for making this Benchmark happen. Special thanks to Pierluigi Falcone and Ron Colvin. Download the CIS Apple iPadiOS 18.0 Benchmark v2.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE) Benchmark v1.8.0 This Benchmark includes support for Kubernetes clusters built on Kubernetes v1.32, 1.33 & 1.34: 12 recommendations have been automated with Script Check Engine (SCE). Over 40 recommendations have been edited and enhanced. The Benchmark and recommendations have been updated to support Kubernetes v1.32, 1.33, 1.34. Special Thanks to Mark Larinde for his dedication to making this benchmark the best it can be. Download the CIS Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE) Benchmark v1.8.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Autopilot Benchmark v1.3.0 This Benchmark includes support for Kubernetes clusters built on Kubernetes v1.32, 1.33 & 1.34: 12 recommendations have been automated with Script Check Engine (SCE). Over 40 recommendations have been edited and enhanced. The Benchmark and recommendations have been updated to support Kubernetes v1.32, 1.33, 1.34. A huge thank you to the CIS Kubernetes Community for making this happen. Special thanks to Mark Larinde for his dedication to making this benchmark the best it can be. Download the CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Autopilot Benchmark v1.3.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Benchmark v1.9.0 This Benchmark includes support for Kubernetes clusters built on Kubernetes v1.32, 1.33 & 1.34: 12 recommendations have been automated with Script Check Engine (SCE). Over 40 recommendations have been edited and enhanced. The Benchmark and recommendations have been updated to support Kubernetes v1.32, 1.33, 1.34. Lots of time and effort goes into creating a new technology release benchmark. A huge thank you to the CIS Kubernetes Community for making this happen. Special thanks to Mark Larinde for his dedication to making this benchmark the best it can be. Download the CIS Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) Benchmark v1.9.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. New CIS Benchmark Released Last Month CIS Debian Linux 13 Benchmark v1.0.0 We are excited to announce the publication of the new technology version CIS Debian Linux 13 Benchmark v1.0.0 A huge thank you to the CIS Team NIX for making this Benchmark happen. Download the CIS Debian Linux 13 Benchmark v1.0.0 in PDF. CIS SecureSuite Members can visit CIS WorkBench here to download other formats and related resources. New CIS Build Kit Released Last Month CIS Ubuntu Linux 22.04 Benchmark v3.0.0 Get involved by helping us develop content, review recommendations, and test CIS Benchmarks. Join a community today! If you're interested, please reach out to us at [email&#160;protected] . You can also learn more on the CIS Benchmarks Community page . As of June 23, 2025, the MS-ISAC has introduced a fee-based membership. Any potential reference to no-cost MS-ISAC services no longer applies. About Leadership Board Communities Careers Media Testimonials Events US Cyber Challenge Support Contact Products And Tools CIS Critical Security Controls® CIS Benchmarks® CIS Hardened Images® CIS SecureSuite® CIS SecureSuite® Platform CIS-CAT® Lite CIS-CAT® Pro Assessor CIS RAM CIS-hosted CSAT CIS WorkBench ThreatWA™ For SLTT Governments MS-ISAC® EI-ISAC® CIS Services® Albert Network Monitoring Managed Security Services Managed Detection and Response Malicious Domain Blocking and Reporting Plus CIS CyberMarket® Explore Blog Whitepapers Newsletters Webinars Case Studies Spotlights Videos Copyright © 2026 Center for Internet Security® Privacy Notice Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn
