Use device management to deploy software updates to Apple devices - Apple Support
Apple
Store
Mac
iPad
iPhone
Watch
Vision
AirPods
TV & Home
Entertainment
Accessories
Support
0 +
Apple Platform Deployment
Open Menu Close Menu
Communities
Search this guide Clear Search
Table of Contents
Apple Platform Deployment
Welcome
Intro to Apple Platform Deployment
What’s new
Plan the deployment
Intro to device management
Declarative device management
Intro to declarative device management
Use declarative device management to manage Apple devices
Device management
Intro to device management profiles
Intro to device management payloads
About device supervision
Choose a deployment model
Device enrollment methods
Enrollment methods for Apple devices
Account-driven enrollment methods
User Enrollment and device management
Device Enrollment and device management
Automated Device Enrollment and device management
Deploy Apple TV
Deploy Apple Vision Pro
Deploy Apple Watch
Deploy shared devices
Shared device overview
Use Return to Service for Apple devices
Deploy Shared iPad
Shared iPad overview
Prepare Shared iPad
Choose a device management service
Device management migration
Plan your device management migration
Configure your new device management service
Migrate managed devices
Back up and restore managed devices
Use standards-based services
Prepare your environment
Deploy devices with Apple School Manager or Apple Business
Use Apple Configurator
Configure devices
Install apps with Apple Configurator
Add Apple devices to Apple School Manager or Apple Business
Configure your network for device management
Configure devices to work with APNs
Configure devices with cellular connections
Prepare to use eSIMs with Apple devices
Use a device management service to deploy devices with cellular connections
Support for private 5G and LTE networks
Support for 5G Network Slicing
Prepare your Wi-Fi networks
Optimize your Wi-Fi networks
Review aggregate throughput for Wi-Fi networks
Speed up downloads
Intro to content caching
Set up content caching
Use DNS TXT records
Advanced content caching settings
Content caching from the command line
Content caching metrics
Set up a shared internet connection
Use identity services
Intro to Apple identity services
Extensible Single Sign-on on Apple devices
Intro to Single Sign-on
Enrollment SSO for iPhone, iPad, and Apple Vision Pro
Platform SSO for macOS
Kerberos SSO extension
Integrate Apple devices with Microsoft services
Integrate with Microsoft Entra ID
Integrate with Microsoft Exchange
Use Microsoft Exchange to identify an iPhone, iPad, or Apple Vision Pro
Integrate Mac computers with Active Directory
About Managed Apple Accounts
About Managed Apple Accounts
iCloud for Managed Apple Accounts
Review the setup process
Manage Setup Assistant
Managed Migration Assistant for macOS
Set up local macOS accounts
Device management configuration options
Review declarative configurations
Plan your configuration profiles
Review device management payloads
Review device management restrictions
Manage software updates
About software updates
Software update process
Install and enforce software updates
Use device management to deploy software updates
Phases of Apple software update enforcement
Test software updates with the AppleSeed for IT beta program
Distribute content
Intro to content distribution
Content distribution methods
Distribute apps
Distribute managed apps
Distribute Custom Apps
Distribute unlisted apps
Distribute proprietary in-house apps
Distribute packages to Mac computers
Get app bundle IDs
Bundle IDs for iPhone and iPad Apple apps
Bundle IDs for Apple TV Apple apps
Get the bundle ID for a Mac app
Manage organizational data
Manage login items and background tasks on Mac
Integrate with networks
How Apple devices join Wi-Fi networks
Connect to 802.1X networks
Wi-Fi roaming support
Cisco network enhancements
Wi-Fi and Ethernet specifications for Apple devices
Use VPN for secure access
VPN overview
Cisco IPsec VPN setup
Use a VPN proxy and certificate configuration
Use network relays
Filter content
Use AirPlay
Ensure device security
Intro to device management security
Background Security Improvements
Lock and locate devices
Erase devices
Activation Lock
Manage accessory access
Enforce password policies
Use persistent tokens
Use built-in network security features
Managed Device Attestation
Managed Device Attestation
Deploy Managed Device Attestation
Manage certificates
Intro to certificate management
Distribute certificates
Smart card integration
Intro to smart card integration
Smart card support on iPhone and iPad
Supported smart card functions on iPhone and iPad
Use a smart card on iPhone and iPad
Smart card support on Mac
Supported smart card functions on Mac
Use a smart card on Mac
Configure a Mac for smart card–only authentication
FileVault and smart card usage
Advanced smart card options
macOS system security
Startup security
System extensions in macOS
FileVault
Intro to FileVault
Use secure and bootstrap tokens
Manage FileVault with device management
Mac app security enhancements
Device management settings
Declarative configurations and status reports
Declarative status reports
Declarative app configuration
Authentication credentials and identity asset declaration
Background task management declarative
Calendar declarative configuration
Certificates declarative configuration
Contacts declarative configuration
Exchange declarative configuration
Google Accounts declarative configuration
LDAP declarative configuration
Legacy interactive profile declarative configuration
Legacy profile declarative configuration
Mail declarative configuration
Math and Calculator app declarative configuration
Managed Migration Assistant declarative configuration
Passcode declarative configuration
Passkey Attestation declarative configuration
Safari browsing management declarative configuration
Safari extensions management declarative configuration
Screen Sharing declarative configuration
Service configuration files declarative configuration
Software Update declarative configuration
Software Update settings declarative configuration
Storage management declarative configuration
Subscribed Calendars declarative configuration
Device management lists
Device management service enrollment information
Device management service User Enrollment information
Device management payloads for Device Enrollment
Device management payloads for Automated Device Enrollment
Device management payload lists
Payload list for iPhone and iPad
Payload list for Mac
Payload list for Apple TV
Payload list for Apple Watch
Payload list for Apple Vision Pro
Payload list for Shared iPad
Payload list available in Apple Configurator for Mac
Device management restriction lists
Restrictions for iPhone and iPad
Restrictions for Mac
Restrictions for Apple TV
Restrictions for Apple Watch
Restrictions for Apple Vision Pro
Restrictions for supervised devices
Restrictions available in Apple Configurator for Mac
Device management command lists
Device management command list
Device management command settings options list
Device management query lists
Device information queries
Device network information queries
Operating system queries
Installed app queries
Security queries
Device management payload settings
Accessibility payload settings
Active Directory Certificate payload settings
AirPlay payload settings
AirPlay Security payload settings
AirPrint payload settings
App Lock payload settings
Associated Domains payload settings
Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) payload settings
Autonomous Single App Mode payload settings
Calendar payload settings
Cellular payload settings
Cellular Private Network payload settings
Certificate Preference payload settings
Certificate Revocation payload settings
Certificate Transparency payload settings
Certificates payload settings
Conference Room Display payload settings
Contacts payload settings
Content Caching payload settings
Directory Service payload settings
DNS Proxy payload settings
DNS Settings payload settings
Dock payload settings
Domains payload settings
Energy Saver payload settings
Exchange ActiveSync (EAS) payload settings
Exchange Web Services (EWS) payload settings
Extensible Single Sign-on payload settings
Extensible Single Sign-on Kerberos payload settings
Extensions payload settings
FileVault payload settings
Finder payload settings
Firewall payload settings
Fonts payload settings
Global HTTP Proxy payload settings
Google Accounts payload settings
Home Screen Layout payload settings
Identification payload settings
Identity Preference payload settings
Kernel Extension Policy payload settings
LDAP payload settings
Lights Out Management payload settings
Lock Screen Message payload settings
Login Window payload settings
Managed Login Items payload settings
Mail payload settings
Network settings
Wi-Fi settings
Ethernet settings
WEP, WPA, WPA2, WPA2/WPA3 settings
Dynamic WEP, WPA Enterprise, and WPA2 Enterprise settings
EAP settings
HotSpot 2.0 settings
Legacy Hotspot settings
Cisco Fastlane settings
Network Proxy Configuration settings
Network Usage Rules payload settings
Notifications payload settings
Parental Controls payload settings
Passcode payload settings
Printing payload settings
Privacy Preferences Policy Control payload settings
Relay payload settings
SCEP payload settings
Security payload settings
Setup Assistant payload settings
Single Sign-on payload settings
Smart Card payload settings
Subscribed Calendars payload settings
System Extensions payload settings
System Migration payload settings
Time Machine payload settings
TV Remote payload settings
VPN device management settings
VPN device management settings overview
AppLayerVPN payload settings
IKEv2 settings
IPsec settings
L2TP settings
VPN Proxy settings
Web Clips payload settings
Web Content Filter payload settings
Xsan payload settings
Additional resources
Join AppleSeed for IT
AppleCare support
Professional services
Deployment and management training
Apple Consultants Network
Apple web resources
Glossary
Document revision history
Copyright and trademarks
Use device management to deploy software updates to Apple devices
Declarative device management is the future of Apple device management. It allows a device to asynchronously apply settings and report status back to the device management service without constant polling. This is ideal for performance and scalability, and also provides an advanced approach to managing software updates. Declarative device management offers proactive status reporting from devices as values and configurations change. In this way, a device management service always has an up-to-date view on devices without having to perform regular queries.
Instead of sending a software update command to a device to initiate an update, a device management service declares the desired operating system version state, and delegates the task to achieving that state to the device itself. This allows for a more resilient managed software update process and increased user transparency.
Leverage software update declarations
Device management services need to leverage software update declarations whenever possible. However, the legacy software update commands and profiles are still available and supported. They can work alongside software update declarations with the following changes:
Deferrals defined by a declaration take precedence over deferrals configured by a restriction.
Automatic software update settings on macOS applied by a declaration take precedence over automatic update settings provided in a configuration profile.
When there’s a pending software update that the operating system configures using declarative device management, the client can no longer process some device management commands, and returns errors indicating that there’s an active declaration on the device, as the following table shows:
Device management command
Result
AvailableOSUpdates
Limited: For Mac computers, operating system-based updates that aren’t managed may show up in the command response—for example, in Xcode or command-line tools.
ScheduleOSUpdate
The device returns an InstallFailed error.
OSUpdateStatus
The device returns an empty status array.
Use the Apple Software Lookup Service
The Apple Software Lookup Service (available at https://gdmf.apple.com/v2/pmv ) is the official resource to obtain a list of publicly available updates, upgrades, and Background Security Improvements. It allows a device management service to query releases as soon as Apple publishes them, and calculate applicability for each hardware model in a timely and accurate manner.
The JSON response contains three lists of available software releases:
PublicAssetSets: This list contains the latest releases available to the general public if they try to update or upgrade.
AssetSets: This list is a subset of PublicAssetSets and contains all the releases available for device management services to push to devices.
PublicBackgroundSecurityImprovements: This list contains Background Security Improvement releases currently available for Apple devices.
Each element in the list contains the ProductVersion number and Build of the operating system, the PostingDate when the release was published, the ExpirationDate , and a list of SupportedDevices for that release. The device list matches the ProductName value from the device, which is returned in a DeviceInformation response, the initial Authenticate request, or in the MachineInfo when the device tries to enroll.
The expiration date, typically set to 180 days after the posting date, defines the date the signing of the update expires. An expired update can’t be installed on devices anymore. When subsequent updates are made available, previous updates might have their expiration dates updated. If an expiration date isn’t provided, the update has yet to expire. An update has expired only when it has an expiration date in the past.
The assets are grouped by operating system platform using the following keys:
iOS (which includes iPadOS, tvOS, and watchOS)
macOS
visionOS
{ "AssetSets": { "iOS": [ { "ProductVersion": "18.2.1", "Build": "22C6161", "PostingDate": "2025-01-06", "ExpirationDate": "2025-04-17", "SupportedDevices": ["iPad11,1", "iPad11,2", "iPad11,3", "iPad11,4", "iPad11,6", "iPad11,7", "iPad12,1", "iPad12,2", "iPad13,1", "iPad13,10", "iPad13,11", "iPad13,16", "iPad13,17", "iPad13,18", "iPad13,19", "iPad13,2", "iPad13,4", "iPad13,5", "iPad13,6", "iPad13,7", "iPad13,8", "iPad13,9", "iPad14,1", "iPad14,10", "iPad14,11", "iPad14,2", "iPad14,3", "iPad14,4", "iPad14,5", "iPad14,6", "iPad14,8", "iPad14,9", "iPad16,1", "iPad16,2", "iPad16,3", "iPad16,4", "iPad16,5", "iPad16,6", "iPad7,11", "iPad7,12", "iPad8,1", "iPad8,10", "iPad8,11", "iPad8,12", "iPad8,2", "iPad8,3", "iPad8,4", "iPad8,5", "iPad8,6", "iPad8,7", "iPad8,8", "iPad8,9", "iPhone11,2", "iPhone11,4", "iPhone11,6", "iPhone11,8", "iPhone12,1", "iPhone12,3", "iPhone12,5", "iPhone12,8", "iPhone13,1", "iPhone13,2", "iPhone13,3", "iPhone13,4", "iPhone14,2", "iPhone14,3", "iPhone14,4", "iPhone14,5", "iPhone14,6", "iPhone14,7", "iPhone14,8", "iPhone15,2", "iPhone15,3", "iPhone15,4", "iPhone15,5", "iPhone16,1", "iPhone16,2", "iPhone17,1", "iPhone17,2", "iPhone17,3", "iPhone17,4" ] },
Use the product version list to determine which versions are later than the deviceʼs current operating system version, and are applicable to a specific device. Then provide that list of versions to the device management service administrator as potential operating system update candidates.
Send a status report to the device management service
To receive updates for status items as they change, the server needs to subscribe to each status report by sending a ManagementStatusSubscriptions declaration to the device. The device then sends a StatusReport to the device management service when a ManagementStatusSubscriptions declaration becomes active, if the status of a subscribed item changes, and every 24 hours.
For the purposes of monitoring operating system versions and software update status, the device management service may want to subscribe to the following status reports:
Status report
Description
device.operating-system.build-version
The operating system’s build version on the device (for example, 21E219).
device.operating-system.version
The operating system’s version in use on the device (for example, 17.4).
device.operating-system.supplemental.build-version
The operating system’s build and Background Security Improvement versions in use on the device, for example (20A123a or 20F75c).
device.operating-system.supplemental.extra-version
The operating system’s Background Security Improvement version in use on the device (for example, a).
softwareupdate.pending-version
A dictionary that contains the build and operating system versions of the software update that’s pending on the device.
softwareupdate.install-state
The software update installation status, which has the following values:
none: There’s no software update pending, and any previous software update succeeded.
waiting: A software update is waiting to start.
downloading: The system is downloading a software update.
prepared: The system prepared the software update and it’s ready for installation.
installing: The system is installing the software update.
failed: The software update failed.
softwareupdate.install-reason
A dictionary with details about the reason for a pending software update. The softwareupdate-reason key has one of the following values:
system-settings: It was triggered from Settings (on iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS) or System Settings (on macOS).
install-tonight: It was triggered by an install tonight action.
auto-update: It was triggered by an automatic update.
notification: It was triggered from a user notification.
setup-assistant: It was triggered during Setup Assistant.
command-line: It was triggered by the softwareupdate command-line tool.
mdm: It was triggered by a device management command.
declaration: It was triggered by a declarative device management configuration.
softwareupdate.failure-reason
Details about a software update failure. The details include the number of times the software update has failed, last failure timestamp, and the failure reason.
softwareupdate.beta-enrollment
The device’s enrolled beta program name, or an empty string if there is no enrolled beta program.
In addition to the other reports, device management services may also want to make softwareupdate.install-reason available to administrators for support purposes, and to provide additional insight into how an update occurs. You can use this dictionary to determine whether a user initiates the update, the update happens automatically, or a software update enforcement declaration initiates it.
Request a specific minimum software version during enrollment
If a device supports this capability, it returns an MDM_CAN_REQUEST_SOFTWARE_UPDATE key, set to True, in the MachineInfo data that it sends in the initial HTTP POST request to the device management service when the device detects a management configuration in Setup Assistant. For more information, see the MachineInfo yaml file in the Apple device management GitHub repository.
In addition, devices provide the following fields in the MachineInfo data (all strings) :
Key
Minimum supported operating system versions
Description
VERSION
iOS 17
iPadOS 17
macOS 14
The build version installed on the device (for example, 7A182).
OS_VERSION
iOS 17
iPadOS 17
macOS 14
The operating system version installed on the device (for example, 17.0).
SUPPLEMENTAL_BUILD_VERSION
iOS 17
iPadOS 17
macOS 14
The device’s Background Security Improvement version (if one is available).
SUPPLEMENTAL_OS_VERSION_EXTRA
iOS 17
iPadOS 17
macOS 14
The device’s Background Security Improvement version extra (if one is available).
SOFTWARE_UPDATE_DEVICE_ID
iOS 17.4
iPadOS 17.4
macOS 14.4
The device model identifier used to lookup available operating system updates in the Apple Software Lookup Service.
Based on the provided information, the device management service can decide whether to enforce the device to update.
If a device management service chooses not to enforce a software update, it simply returns the enrollment profile in response to the HTTP POST request, as it does to allow the enrollment to proceed.
If the device management service chooses to enforce a software update, it needs to return an HTTP response with the 403 status code, and include a JSON or XML object in the response body (the HTTP Content-Type response header needs to be set to application/json or application/xml , respectively).
After receiving this error response, the device attempts to update to the specified version. If the update succeeds, the device restarts and the user needs to go through Setup Assistant again. The next MachineInfo POST request from the device to the device management service shows the updated operating system version, and the service can then proceed with enrollment. If the update fails, an error message displays to the user, and the Remote Management pane appears in Setup Assistant again.
The response schema is defined in the table below.
Key
Type
Required
Description
code
String
Yes
Needs to be set to com.apple.softwareupdate.required .
description
String
No
The description of the error. Used only for logging purposes.
message
String
No
The description of the error suitable for displaying to the user.
details
Dictionary
Yes
Additional data specifying the software update.
The details dictionary schema is defined here.
Key
Type
Required
Description
OSVersion
String
Yes
The operating system version that the device is required to update to.
BuildVersion
String
No
The build version that the device is required to update to.
RequireBetaProgram
Dictionary
No
The device enrolls in the beta program, allowing enforced software updates to beta program operating system versions.
The device remains in the beta program after the enforced software update is complete.
If you specify only OSVersion , a device automatically downloads and installs any Background Security Improvements available for this version. If a specific build or supplemental version is needed, a device management service can also optionally specify the BuildVersion . For example, to require a device to run iOS 16.5.1(a) before enrolling—although iOS 16.5.1(c) is already available—a device management service needs to set OSVersion to iOS 16.5.1 and BuildVersion to 20F770750b .
Important: Before macOS 15 , only releases from the PublicAssetSets and PublicBackgroundSecurityImprovements lists can be specified. In macOS 15 , assets from AssetSets can also be used.
Device management settings for software updates
The com.apple.configuration.softwareupdate.settings declaration (available in iOS 18 , iPadOS 18 , macOS 15 , tvOS 18.4 , or later) consists of dictionaries that can be used to configure various aspects of the software update behavior.
After a device management service distributes different keys across multiple declarations, a device merges the settings of all active software update settings declarations. If multiple declarations configure the same key, the merge behavior depends on the individual key, which is outlined in the tables below.
Configure automatic software updates with device management
The com.apple.configuration.softwareupdate.settings declaration offers a dictionary to define the automatic software update behavior on supervised iPhone, iPad, Apple TV , and Mac devices. For more information, see AutomaticActions dictionary keys .
How a device management service handles Background Security Improvements
Background Security Improvements always apply to the latest update of an operating system, which becomes the base version of the Background Security Improvement. For example, if an iPhone has operating system version iOS 17.2 installed, then it applies the 17.2 (a) supplemental update, if one is available. In iOS 18 , iPadOS 18 , and macOS 15 , combined updates have been made available, which allow a software update to include any available Background Security Improvements.
Prior to iOS 18 , iPadOS 18 , and macOS 15 , a device management service may need to trigger two software updates to ensure that a specific supplemental version is present. First, it needs to update the device to the base version of the supplemental update, if the device isn’t already on that base version (for example, iOS 17.1 to iOS 17.2 ). Then it needs to update the base version to the supplemental version (for example, iOS 17.2 to iOS 17.2 (a) ).
In iOS 18 , iPadOS 18 , and macOS 15 , a device management service can specify either:
The operating system version (which automatically installs available Background Security Improvements)
The supplemental build version (which causes the device to perform a necessary update to the base version automatically as part of the process)
These two approaches apply to the software update enforcement configuration, and to the enforced minimum version during Automated Device Enrollment.
The com.apple.configuration.softwareupdate.settings declaration can also be used to configure the Background Security Improvement behavior on supervised iPhone, iPad, and Mac devices. For more information, see RapidSecurityResponse dictionary keys for iOS, iPadOS, and macOS .
Defer a software update with device management
Deferring a software update or upgrade from 1 to 90 days is done using the com.apple.configuration.softwareupdate.settings declaration on supervised iPhone, iPad, and Mac devices.
A configured deferral defines the number of days before an organization offers a release to users after it becomes publicly available. Independent of a configured deferral, a device management service can still enforce a specific software update, upgrade, or Background Security Improvement on managed devices. For more information, see Deferrals dictionary keys for iOS, iPadOS, and tvOS and Deferrals dictionary keys for macOS .
Note: Deferring software updates also defers any Background Security Improvements that are dependent on that version.
Enforce software updates with device management
To enforce a software update by a certain time on devices that enroll using Device Enrollment or Automated Device Enrollment, device management services can apply the com.apple.configuration.softwareupdate.enforcement.specific declaration.
If a configuration gets applied to a device that specifies an operating system or build version that’s the same as, or older than the current device version, the device returns an error in the status report
If multiple configurations are present with a newer operating system or build version than the current device version, the configuration with the earliest target date and time is processed first, and any others remain in the queue. When the device updates to a new version, the set of configurations are reprocessed to determine which becomes the next one to be processed. As part of this process the device ignores any existing configurations that specify a version that is older or the same as the current one.
Here are some examples:
Example 1
An iPhone has iOS 26.0 installed and you have two configurations:
iOS 26.1 with an install date of December 20, 2025.
iOS 26.2 with an install date of January 20, 2026.
The user is prompted to install iOS 26.1 on December 20, 2025 and again prompted to install iOS 26.2 on January 20, 2026.
Example 2
An iPhone has iOS 26.0 installed and you have two configurations:
iOS 26.1 with an install date of December 20, 2025.
iOS 26.1 with an install date of January 20, 2026.
The user is prompted to install iOS 26.1 on December 20, 2025.
Example 3
An iPhone has iOS 26.0 installed and you have two configurations:
iOS 26.1 with an install date of January 20, 2026.
iOS 26.2 with an install date of December 20, 2025.
The user is prompted to install iOS 26.2 on December 20, 2025, after which the device reevaluates the configurations and ignores the one for iOS 26.1 , as the currently installed version is newer than the requested one.
The operating system automatically installs any available Background Security Improvements if a device management service defines only the TargetOSVersion . To target a specific release or Background Security Improvement, a device management service can use the TargetBuildVersion key in addition to specifying the build, including the supplemental version identifier.
For more information, see Enforce software updates dictionary keys .
Notifications
The Notifications key changes the default notification behavior to show only a notification one hour before the enforcement time and the restart countdown. For more information, see Notifications key .
Use the bootstrap token for Mac computers with Apple silicon
To authorize an enforced software update on a supervised Mac computer with Apple silicon, a device management service can request and escrow a bootstrap token. This allows for a completely seamless software update experience, and avoids the need for user interaction as part of the process. When needed, the device uses a GetBootstrapTokenRequest to retrieve the bootstrap token from the device management service.
In the first step, the device management service determines whether the device supports a bootstrap token using the SecurityInfo command. If the response includes a BootstrapTokenRequiredForSoftwareUpdate that’s set to true , the device can use a bootstrap token to authorize a software update.
To create a bootstrap token, the device management service needs to add com.apple.mdm.bootstraptoken to the ServerCapabilities array in the device management profile. For more information, see the Device Management Profile on the Apple Developer website.
After the device receives the bootstrap token, it creates a bootstrap token the next time a secure token-enabled user logs in. It then reaches out to the check-in endpoint of the device management service and escrows the token using a SetBootstrapTokenRequest . For more information, see Set Bootstrap Token on the Apple Developer website.
For the most current schema specification, see the Apple device management GitHub repository .
Published Date: December 17, 2025
See also Device management service User Enrollment information Device management payloads for Device Enrollment Device management payloads for Automated Device Enrollment About software updates for Apple devices
Previous Install and enforce software updates Next Phases of Apple software update enforcement
Helpful?
Yes No
Character limit: 250
Please don’t include any personal information in your comment.
Maximum character limit is 250.
Submit
Thanks for your feedback.
Apple Footer
 Apple
Support
Apple Platform Deployment
Use device management to deploy software updates to Apple devices
United States
Copyright © 2026 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Site Map
