Manage FileVault with device management - Apple Support
Apple
Store
Mac
iPad
iPhone
Watch
Vision
AirPods
TV & Home
Entertainment
Accessories
Support
0 +
Apple Platform Deployment
Open Menu Close Menu
Communities
Search this guide Clear Search
Table of Contents
Apple Platform Deployment
Welcome
Intro to Apple Platform Deployment
What’s new
Plan the deployment
Intro to device management
Declarative device management
Intro to declarative device management
Use declarative device management to manage Apple devices
Device management
Intro to device management profiles
Intro to device management payloads
About device supervision
Choose a deployment model
Device enrollment methods
Enrollment methods for Apple devices
Account-driven enrollment methods
User Enrollment and device management
Device Enrollment and device management
Automated Device Enrollment and device management
Deploy Apple TV
Deploy Apple Vision Pro
Deploy Apple Watch
Deploy shared devices
Shared device overview
Use Return to Service for Apple devices
Deploy Shared iPad
Shared iPad overview
Prepare Shared iPad
Choose a device management service
Device management migration
Plan your device management migration
Configure your new device management service
Migrate managed devices
Back up and restore managed devices
Use standards-based services
Prepare your environment
Deploy devices with Apple School Manager or Apple Business
Use Apple Configurator
Configure devices
Install apps with Apple Configurator
Add Apple devices to Apple School Manager or Apple Business
Configure your network for device management
Configure devices to work with APNs
Configure devices with cellular connections
Prepare to use eSIMs with Apple devices
Use a device management service to deploy devices with cellular connections
Support for private 5G and LTE networks
Support for 5G Network Slicing
Prepare your Wi-Fi networks
Optimize your Wi-Fi networks
Review aggregate throughput for Wi-Fi networks
Speed up downloads
Intro to content caching
Set up content caching
Use DNS TXT records
Advanced content caching settings
Content caching from the command line
Content caching metrics
Set up a shared internet connection
Use identity services
Intro to Apple identity services
Extensible Single Sign-on on Apple devices
Intro to Single Sign-on
Enrollment SSO for iPhone, iPad, and Apple Vision Pro
Platform SSO for macOS
Kerberos SSO extension
Integrate Apple devices with Microsoft services
Integrate with Microsoft Entra ID
Integrate with Microsoft Exchange
Use Microsoft Exchange to identify an iPhone, iPad, or Apple Vision Pro
Integrate Mac computers with Active Directory
About Managed Apple Accounts
About Managed Apple Accounts
iCloud for Managed Apple Accounts
Review the setup process
Manage Setup Assistant
Managed Migration Assistant for macOS
Set up local macOS accounts
Device management configuration options
Review declarative configurations
Plan your configuration profiles
Review device management payloads
Review device management restrictions
Manage software updates
About software updates
Software update process
Install and enforce software updates
Use device management to deploy software updates
Phases of Apple software update enforcement
Test software updates with the AppleSeed for IT beta program
Distribute content
Intro to content distribution
Content distribution methods
Distribute apps
Distribute managed apps
Distribute Custom Apps
Distribute unlisted apps
Distribute proprietary in-house apps
Distribute packages to Mac computers
Get app bundle IDs
Bundle IDs for iPhone and iPad Apple apps
Bundle IDs for Apple TV Apple apps
Get the bundle ID for a Mac app
Manage organizational data
Manage login items and background tasks on Mac
Integrate with networks
How Apple devices join Wi-Fi networks
Connect to 802.1X networks
Wi-Fi roaming support
Cisco network enhancements
Wi-Fi and Ethernet specifications for Apple devices
Use VPN for secure access
VPN overview
Cisco IPsec VPN setup
Use a VPN proxy and certificate configuration
Use network relays
Filter content
Use AirPlay
Ensure device security
Intro to device management security
Background Security Improvements
Lock and locate devices
Erase devices
Activation Lock
Manage accessory access
Enforce password policies
Use persistent tokens
Use built-in network security features
Managed Device Attestation
Managed Device Attestation
Deploy Managed Device Attestation
Manage certificates
Intro to certificate management
Distribute certificates
Smart card integration
Intro to smart card integration
Smart card support on iPhone and iPad
Supported smart card functions on iPhone and iPad
Use a smart card on iPhone and iPad
Smart card support on Mac
Supported smart card functions on Mac
Use a smart card on Mac
Configure a Mac for smart card–only authentication
FileVault and smart card usage
Advanced smart card options
macOS system security
Startup security
System extensions in macOS
FileVault
Intro to FileVault
Use secure and bootstrap tokens
Manage FileVault with device management
Mac app security enhancements
Device management settings
Declarative configurations and status reports
Declarative status reports
Declarative app configuration
Authentication credentials and identity asset declaration
Background task management declarative
Calendar declarative configuration
Certificates declarative configuration
Contacts declarative configuration
Exchange declarative configuration
Google Accounts declarative configuration
LDAP declarative configuration
Legacy interactive profile declarative configuration
Legacy profile declarative configuration
Mail declarative configuration
Math and Calculator app declarative configuration
Managed Migration Assistant declarative configuration
Passcode declarative configuration
Passkey Attestation declarative configuration
Safari browsing management declarative configuration
Safari extensions management declarative configuration
Screen Sharing declarative configuration
Service configuration files declarative configuration
Software Update declarative configuration
Software Update settings declarative configuration
Storage management declarative configuration
Subscribed Calendars declarative configuration
Device management lists
Device management service enrollment information
Device management service User Enrollment information
Device management payloads for Device Enrollment
Device management payloads for Automated Device Enrollment
Device management payload lists
Payload list for iPhone and iPad
Payload list for Mac
Payload list for Apple TV
Payload list for Apple Watch
Payload list for Apple Vision Pro
Payload list for Shared iPad
Payload list available in Apple Configurator for Mac
Device management restriction lists
Restrictions for iPhone and iPad
Restrictions for Mac
Restrictions for Apple TV
Restrictions for Apple Watch
Restrictions for Apple Vision Pro
Restrictions for supervised devices
Restrictions available in Apple Configurator for Mac
Device management command lists
Device management command list
Device management command settings options list
Device management query lists
Device information queries
Device network information queries
Operating system queries
Installed app queries
Security queries
Device management payload settings
Accessibility payload settings
Active Directory Certificate payload settings
AirPlay payload settings
AirPlay Security payload settings
AirPrint payload settings
App Lock payload settings
Associated Domains payload settings
Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) payload settings
Autonomous Single App Mode payload settings
Calendar payload settings
Cellular payload settings
Cellular Private Network payload settings
Certificate Preference payload settings
Certificate Revocation payload settings
Certificate Transparency payload settings
Certificates payload settings
Conference Room Display payload settings
Contacts payload settings
Content Caching payload settings
Directory Service payload settings
DNS Proxy payload settings
DNS Settings payload settings
Dock payload settings
Domains payload settings
Energy Saver payload settings
Exchange ActiveSync (EAS) payload settings
Exchange Web Services (EWS) payload settings
Extensible Single Sign-on payload settings
Extensible Single Sign-on Kerberos payload settings
Extensions payload settings
FileVault payload settings
Finder payload settings
Firewall payload settings
Fonts payload settings
Global HTTP Proxy payload settings
Google Accounts payload settings
Home Screen Layout payload settings
Identification payload settings
Identity Preference payload settings
Kernel Extension Policy payload settings
LDAP payload settings
Lights Out Management payload settings
Lock Screen Message payload settings
Login Window payload settings
Managed Login Items payload settings
Mail payload settings
Network settings
Wi-Fi settings
Ethernet settings
WEP, WPA, WPA2, WPA2/WPA3 settings
Dynamic WEP, WPA Enterprise, and WPA2 Enterprise settings
EAP settings
HotSpot 2.0 settings
Legacy Hotspot settings
Cisco Fastlane settings
Network Proxy Configuration settings
Network Usage Rules payload settings
Notifications payload settings
Parental Controls payload settings
Passcode payload settings
Printing payload settings
Privacy Preferences Policy Control payload settings
Relay payload settings
SCEP payload settings
Security payload settings
Setup Assistant payload settings
Single Sign-on payload settings
Smart Card payload settings
Subscribed Calendars payload settings
System Extensions payload settings
System Migration payload settings
Time Machine payload settings
TV Remote payload settings
VPN device management settings
VPN device management settings overview
AppLayerVPN payload settings
IKEv2 settings
IPsec settings
L2TP settings
VPN Proxy settings
Web Clips payload settings
Web Content Filter payload settings
Xsan payload settings
Additional resources
Join AppleSeed for IT
AppleCare support
Professional services
Deployment and management training
Apple Consultants Network
Apple web resources
Glossary
Document revision history
Copyright and trademarks
Manage FileVault with device management
Organizations can manage FireVault full-disk encryption using a device management service or, for some advanced deployments and configurations, the fdesetup command-line tool. Managing FileVault using a device management service is referred to as deferred enablement , and requires a logout or login event from the user. A device management service can also customize options such as:
The number of times a user can defer the enablement of FileVault
Whether to prompt the user at logout in addition to prompting them at login
Whether to show the recovery key to the user
Which certificate to use to asymmetrically encrypt the recovery key for escrow to the device management service
Having a user be enabled to unlock the storage on APFS volumes requires that they have a secure token and, on a Mac with Apple silicon, that they be volume owners. For more information on secure tokens and volume ownership, see Use secure token, bootstrap token, and volume ownership in deployments . Information on how and when users are granted a secure token in specific workflows is provided below.
Enforce FileVault in Setup Assistant
Using the ForceEnableInSetupAssistant key, Mac computers can be required to turn on FileVault during Setup Assistant. This ensures that the internal storage in managed Mac computers is always encrypted before being used. Organizations can decide whether to show the FileVault recovery key to the user or to escrow the personal recovery key. To use this feature, ensure that await_device_configured is set.
Note: Prior to macOS 14.4 , this feature required the user account created interactively during Setup Assistant to have the role of Administrator.
When a user sets up a Mac on their own
Note: The device management service needs to support specific features for secure tokens and bootstrap tokens to work with a Mac.
When a user sets up a Mac on their own, IT departments don’t perform any provisioning tasks on the actual device. You provide all policies and configurations using a device management service or configuration management tools. Setup Assistant creates the initial local account and grants the user a secure token, and the Mac generates a bootstrap token and escrows it to the device management service.
If the Mac enrolls in a device management service, the initial account may not be a local administrator account, but rather a local standard user account. If you downgrade the user to a standard user using a service, it automatically grants the user a secure token. On a Mac with macOS 10.15.4 or later, if you downgrade the user, macOS automatically generates a bootstrap token and escrows it to the device management service.
If you skip local user account creation in Setup Assistant using a device management service and use a directory service with mobile accounts instead, the service grants the mobile account user a secure token during login. On a Mac with macOS 10.15.4 or later, after enabling the user with a mobile account, macOS automatically generates a bootstrap token during the user’s second login and escrows it to the device management service.
If a device management service skips creating a local user account in Setup Assistant and uses a directory service with mobile accounts instead, the device management service grants the user a secure token when they log in. On a Mac with macOS 10.15.4 or later, if the mobile user has a secure token, macOS automatically generates a bootstrap token and escrows it to the device management service.
In any of the above scenarios, because macOS grants the first and primary user a secure token, the user can enable FileVault using deferred enablement, which allows you to turn on FileVault but defer enabling it until a user logs in to or out of a Mac. You can also choose whether the user can skip turning on FileVault (optionally a defined number of times). This allows the primary user of the Mac—whether a local user of any type or a mobile account—to unlock the FileVault volume.
On a Mac where macOS generates a bootstrap token and escrows it to a device management service, if another user logs in to the Mac in the future, macOS uses the bootstrap token to automatically grant them a secure token. This means that the account is also enabled for FileVault and able to unlock the FileVault volume. To remove a user’s ability to unlock the storage device, use fdesetup remove -user .
When an organization provisions a Mac
When an organization provisions a Mac before giving it to the user, the IT department sets up the device. You use the local administrative account, which you create either in the Setup Assistant or by provisioning one with a device management service, to provision or set up the Mac, and the operating system grants it the first secure token during login. If the service supports the bootstrap token feature, the operating system also generates a bootstrap token and escrows it.
If the Mac is joined to a directory service and configured to create mobile accounts, and if there is no bootstrap token, directory service users are prompted at first login for an existing secure token administratorʼs user name and password to grant their account a secure token. They need to enter a secure token–enabled local administrator’s credentials. If a secure token isnʼt required, the user can click Bypass. For a Mac with macOS 10.13.5 or later, itʼs possible to suppress the secure token dialog completely if you’re not going to use FileVault with the mobile accounts. To suppress the secure token dialog, apply a custom settings configuration profile from the device management service with the following keys and values:
Setting
Value
Domain
com.apple.MCX
Key
cachedaccounts.askForSecureTokenAuthBypass
Value
True
If the device management service supports the bootstrap token feature and the Mac generates one and escrows it to the service, mobile account users don’t see this prompt. Instead, macOS automatically grants them a secure token during login.
If additional local users are required on the Mac instead of user accounts from a directory service, macOS automatically grants them a secure token when a secure token-enabled administrator creates those local users in Users & Groups (in System Settings in macOS 13 or later, or in System Preferences in macOS 12.0.1 or earlier). When creating local users using the command line, the administrator can use the sysadminctl command-line tool, and can optionally enable them for a secure token. On a Mac with macOS 11 or later, if macOS doesn’t grant a secure token at creation, and if a bootstrap token is available from the device management service, it grants a secure token to the local user when they log in.
In these scenarios, the following users can unlock the FileVault-encrypted volume:
The original local administrator used for provisioning
Any additional directory service users granted secure token during the login process, either interactively using the dialog prompt or automatically with the bootstrap token
Any new local users
To remove a user’s ability to unlock the storage device, use fdesetup remove -user .
When using one of the above described workflows, secure token is managed by macOS without any additional configuration or scripting being needed; it becomes an implementation detail and not something that needs to be actively managed or manipulated.
fdesetup command-line tool
You can use device management configurations or the fdesetup command-line tool to configure FileVault. For a Mac with macOS 10.15 or later, using fdesetup to turn on FileVault by providing the user name and password is deprecated and won’t be available in a future release. The command continues to function, but remains deprecated in macOS 11 and macOS 12.0.1 . Consider using deferred enablement from a device management service instead. For more information about the fdesetup command-line tool, launch the Terminal app and enter man fdesetup or fdesetup help .
Institutional versus personal recovery keys
FileVault on both CoreStorage and APFS volumes supports using an institutional recovery key (IRK, previously known as a FileVault Master identity ) to unlock the volume. Though an IRK is useful for command-line operations to unlock a volume or prevent FileVault altogether, its utility for organizations is limited, especially in recent versions of macOS. And on a Mac with Apple silicon, IRKs provide no functional value for two primary reasons: First, IRKs can’t be used to access recoveryOS; and second, because target disk mode is no longer supported, the volume can’t be unlocked by connecting it to another Mac. For those reasons and more, the use of an IRK is no longer recommended for institutional management of FileVault on Mac computers . Instead, a personal recovery key (PRK) should be used. A PRK provides:
An extremely robust recovery and operating system access mechanism
Unique encryption per volume
Escrow to device management service
Easy key rotation after use
For a Mac with Apple silicon with macOS 12.0.1 or later, a PRK can be used either in recoveryOS or to start up an encrypted Mac to macOS directly. In recoveryOS, the PRK can be used if prompted by Recovery Assistant, or with the Forgot All Passwords option, to gain access to the recovery environment, which then also unlocks the volume. When using the Forgot All Passwords option, resetting a password for a user isn’t required; the exit button can be clicked to start up directly into recoveryOS. To start up macOS directly on Intel-based Mac computers, click the question mark next to the password field, then choose the option to “reset it using your Recovery Key.” Enter the PRK, then press Return or click the arrow. After macOS starts up, press Cancel on the password change dialog.
Also, for a Mac with Apple silicon with macOS 12.0.1 or later, press Option-Shift-Return to reveal the entry field for the PRK, then press Return (or click the arrow).
There is only one PRK per encrypted volume, and during FileVault enablement from a device management service, you can optionally hide it from the user. When configuring it for escrow to a device management service, it provides a public key in the form of a certificate to a Mac, which it then uses to asymmetrically encrypt the PRK in a CMS envelope format. The encrypted PRK returns to the service in the security information query, which an organization can then decrypt for viewing. Because the encryption is asymmetrical, the service itself may not be able to decrypt the PRK (which might require additional steps by an administrator). However, many device management service developers provide the option to manage these keys to allow for viewing directly in their products. The device management service can also optionally rotate PRKs as often as required to help maintain a strong security posture—for example, after using a PRK to unlock a volume.
A PRK can be used in target disk mode on Mac computers without Apple silicon to unlock a volume:
1. Connect the Mac in target disk mode to another Mac using the same or a newer version of macOS.
2. Open Terminal, then run the following command and look for the name of the volume (usually “Macintosh HD”). It should say “Mount Point: Not Mounted” and “FileVault: Yes (Locked).” Make note of the APFS Volume Disk ID for the volume, which look like disk3s2 but with likely different numbers—for example, disk4s5.
diskutil apfs list
3. Run the following command, then look for the personal recovery key user and make note of the UUID listed:
diskutil apfs listUsers /dev/<diskXsN>
4. Run this command:
diskutil apfs unlockVolume /dev/<diskXsN> -user <PRK UUID>
5. At the passphrase prompt, paste or enter the PRK, then press Return. The volume is mounted in the Finder.
Published Date: October 27, 2021
See also Intro to FileVault FileVault device management payload settings for Apple devices Apple Platform Security: Volume encryption with FileVault in macOS
Previous Use secure and bootstrap tokens Next Mac app security enhancements
Helpful?
Yes No
Character limit: 250
Please don’t include any personal information in your comment.
Maximum character limit is 250.
Submit
Thanks for your feedback.
Apple Footer
 Apple
Support
Apple Platform Deployment
Manage FileVault with device management
United States
Copyright © 2026 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Site Map
