Android Enterprise feature list  |  Google for Developers Skip to main content
Android Enterprise
/
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Polski
Português – Brasil
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Русский
עברית
العربيّة
فارسی
हिंदी
বাংলা
ภาษาไทย
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Sign in
Home Guides
Android Enterprise
Home
Guides
Get started
Overview
Develop your solution
Release your solution
Feature requirements
Feature list
Solution sets
Work profile on personally-owned device
Work profile on company-owned device
Fully managed device
Dedicated device
Reference
APIs and tools
Overview
Android Management API
Zero-touch enrollment API
Google Play Custom App Publishing API
Connected work & Personal apps
Overview
Getting started
Basic sample
Advanced sample
Advanced topics
Security posture signals
XR Management
Resources for OEMs and carriers
Deprecations
Terminology
Home
Products
Google Play services
Android Enterprise
Guides
Send feedback
Android Enterprise feature list Stay organized with collections Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Page Summary
outlined_flag
EMM solutions managing over 500 devices must support all standard features of at least one solution set to be commercially available.
Various methods exist for provisioning devices with work profiles, fully managed setups, or dedicated device configurations based on Android version and ownership type.
Android Enterprise offers robust device security features including security challenges, remote wipe/lock, and compliance enforcement.
Account and app management features cover enterprise binding, silent app distribution, managed configuration, and programmatic app approval.
Device management features include runtime permission and Wi-Fi configuration management, certificate and VPN management, and control over system settings.
This page lists the complete set of Android Enterprise features.
If you intend to manage more than 500 devices, your EMM solution must support
all the standard features
( star ) of at least one
solution set before it can be made commercially available. EMM developers that
would like their solutions listed in Android's Enterprise Solutions Directory as offering a Standard Management Set must pass standard feature verification
and become a member of our Android Enterprise Partner Program .
An extra set of advanced features is available for each solution set. These
features are denoted in each solution set page: work profile on
personally-owned device , work
profile on company-owned
device , fully managed
device , and dedicated
device . EMM developers that are AE partner program members with
solutions that pass advanced feature verification are listed in Android's Enterprise Solutions Directory as offering an Advanced Management Set .
Note: Use of Android Management API is subject to permissible usage
policy .
Key
star standard
feature star advanced
feature star_border optional feature remove_circle_outline not applicable
1. Device provisioning
1.1. DPC-first work profile provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.1+ star remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
After downloading Android Device Policy from Google Play, users can provision a
work profile.
1.1.1. The EMM provides an IT admin with a QR code or activation code to
support this provisioning method (go to enrolling and provisioning a device ).
1.2. DPC-identifier device provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ remove_circle_outline 12.0+ star star star
Entering "afw#" in the device's setup wizard provisions a fully managed or
dedicated device.
1.2.1. The EMM provides an IT admin with a QR code or activation code to support
this provisioning method (go to enrolling and provisioning a device ).
1.3. NFC device provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ remove_circle_outline 12.0+ star_border star_border star_border
NFC tags can be used by IT admins to provision new or factory-reset devices,
according to the implementation guidelines defined in the Play EMM API
developer documentation .
1.3.1. EMMs must use NFC Forum Type 2 Tags with at least 888 bytes of memory.
Provisioning must use provisioning extras to pass non-sensitive registration
details such as server IDs and enrollment IDs to a device. Registration details
shouldn't include sensitive information, such as passwords or certificates.
1.3.2. We recommend the use of NFC tags for Android 10 onwards due to the
deprecation of NFC Beam (also known as NFC Bump).
1.4. QR code device provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ remove_circle_outline star star star
The EMM's console can generate a QR code that IT admins can scan to provision a
fully-managed or dedicated device, according to implementation guidelines
defined in the Android Management API developer documentation.
1.4.1. The QR code must use provisioning extras to pass non-sensitive
registration details (such as server IDs, enrollment IDs) to a device.
Registration details must not include sensitive information, such as passwords
or certificates.
1.5. Zero-touch enrollment
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
8.0+ (Pixel: Android 7.1+) remove_circle_outline star star star
IT admins can preconfigure devices purchased from authorized
resellers and manage them using your EMM console.
1.5.1. IT admins can provision company-owned devices using the zero-touch
enrollment method, outlined in Zero-touch enrollment for IT admins .
1.5.2. When a device is first turned on, the device is automatically forced into
the settings defined by the IT admin.
1.6. Advanced zero-touch provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
8.0+ (Pixel: Android 7.1+) remove_circle_outline star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can automate much of the device enrollment process with zero-touch
enrollment. Combined with sign-in URLs , IT admins can limit enrollment to specific accounts or domains, according to
the configuration options offered by the EMM.
1.6.1. IT admins can provision a company-owned device using the zero-touch
enrollment method .
1.6.2. This requirement is deprecated.
1.6.3. Using the sign-in URL , the EMM must ensure that unauthorized users can't proceed with activation.
At a minimum, activation must be locked down to users of a given enterprise.
1.6.4. Using the sign-in URL ,
the EMM must make it possible for
IT admins to pre-populate registration details (for example server IDs,
enrollment IDs) aside from unique user or device information (for example
username/password, activation token), so that users don't have to enter details
when activating a device.
EMMs must not include sensitive information, such as passwords or
certificates, in the zero-touch enrollment's configuration.
1.7. Google Account work profile provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star_border remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
For enterprises that use a managed Google Domain, this feature guides
users through the setup of a work profile after entering their corporate
Workspace credentials during device setup or on a device that is already
activated. In both cases, the corporate Workspace identity will be migrated into
the work profile.
1.8. Google Account device provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ remove_circle_outline star_border star_border remove_circle_outline
The Android Management API doesn't support this feature.
1.9. Direct zero-touch configuration
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
8.0+ remove_circle_outline star star star
IT admins can use the EMM's console to set up zero-touch devices using the zero-touch iframe .
1.10. Work profiles on company-owned devices
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
8.0+ star_border star remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
EMMs can enroll company-owned devices that have a work profile by setting AllowPersonalUsage .
1.10.1. Deliberately blank.
1.10.2. IT admins can set compliance actions for work profiles on company-owned
devices through PersonalUsagePolicies .
1.10.3. IT admins can deactivate the camera in either the work profile or the
entire device through PersonalUsagePolicies .
1.10.4. IT admins can deactivate screen capture in either the work profile or an
entire device through PersonalUsagePolicies .
1.10.5. IT admins can set a blocklist of applications that cannot be installed
in the personal profile through PersonalApplicationPolicy .
1.10.6. IT admins can relinquish management of a company-owned device by
removing the work profile or wiping the entire device.
1.11. Dedicated device provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
8.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star
IT admins can enroll dedicated devices without the user being prompted to
authenticate with a Google Account.
2. Device security
2.1. Device security challenge
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
IT admins can set and enforce a device security challenge (PIN/pattern/password)
from a predefined selection of 3 complexity levels on managed devices.
2.1.1. Policy must enforce settings managing device security challenges
(parentProfilePasswordRequirements for work profile, passwordRequirements for
fully managed and dedicated devices).
2.1.2.  The password complexity should map to the following password
complexities:
PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_LOW - pattern or pin with repeating (4444) or
ordered (1234, 4321, 2468) sequences.
PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_MEDIUM - PIN with no repeating (4444) or ordered
(1234, 4321, 2468) sequences, alphabetic, or alphanumeric password with a
length of at least 4
PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_HIGH - PIN with no repeating (4444) or ordered
(1234, 4321, 2468) sequences and a length of at least 8 or alphabetic or
alphanumeric passwords with a length of at least 6
2.1.3. Additional password restrictions can also be enforced as legacy settings
on company-owned devices.
2.2. Work security challenge
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star star remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
IT admins can set and enforce a security challenge for apps and data in the work
profile that is separate and has different requirements from the device security
challenge (2.1.).
2.2.1. Policy must enforce the security challenge for the work profile.
By default, IT admins should set restrictions only for the work profile
if no scope is specified
IT admins can set this device-wide by specifying the scope (see
requirement 2.1)
2.2.2.  The password complexity should map to the following predefined password
complexities:
PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_LOW - pattern or pin with repeating (4444) or
ordered (1234, 4321, 2468) sequences.
PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_MEDIUM - PIN with no repeating (4444) or ordered
(1234, 4321, 2468) sequences, alphabetic, or alphanumeric password with a
length of at least 4
PASSWORD_COMPLEXITY_HIGH - PIN with no repeating (4444) or ordered
(1234, 4321, 2468) sequences and a length of at least 8 or alphabetic or
alphanumeric passwords with a length of at least 6
2.2.3. Additional password restrictions can also be enforced as legacy settings
2.3. Advanced passcode management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star_border
IT admins can set up advanced password settings on devices.
2.3.1. Deliberately blank.
2.3.2. Deliberately blank.
2.3.3. The following password lifecycle settings can be set for each lock screen available on a
device:
Deliberately blank
Deliberately blank
Maximum failed passwords for wipe: Specifies the number of times users
can enter an incorrect password before corporate data is wiped from the
device. IT admins must be able to turn off this feature.
2.3.4. (Android 8.0+) Strong Authentication required timeout: a strong
authentication passcode (such as PIN or password) must be input after a timeout period set by an IT admin . After the timeout period, non-strong
authentication methods (such as fingerprint, face unlock) are turned off until
the device is unlocked with a strong authentication passcode.
2.4. Smart lock management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ star_border star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can manage whether trust agents in Android's Smart Lock feature are permitted to extend device unlock up to four hours.
2.4.1. IT admins can disable trust agents on the device.
2.5. Wipe and lock
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
IT admins can use the EMM's console to remotely lock and wipe work data from a
managed device.
2.5.1. Devices must be locked using the Android Management API .
2.5.2. Devices must be wiped using the Android Management API .
2.6. Compliance enforcement
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
If a device is not compliant with security policies, compliance rules put in place by the Android Management API automatically restrict use of work
data.
2.6.1. At minimum, the security policies enforced on a device must include
password policy.
2.7. Default security policies
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
EMMs must enforce the specified security policies on devices by default ,
without requiring IT admins to set up or customize any settings in the EMM's
console. EMMs are encouraged (but not required) to not allow IT admins to change
the default state of these security features.
2.7.1. Installing apps from unknown sources must be blocked, including apps
installed on the personal side of any Android 8.0+ device with a work profile. This subfeature is supported by default .
2.7.2. Debugging features must be blocked. This subfeature
is supported by default.
2.8. Security policies for dedicated devices
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star
No other actions are allowed for a locked down dedicated device.
2.8.1. Booting into safe mode must be turned off by default using policy (Go to safeBootDisabled ).
2.9. Play Integrity Support
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
Play Integrity checks are made by default. No extra implementation is
required.
2.9.1. Deliberately blank.
2.9.2. Deliberately blank.
2.9.3. IT admins can set up different policy responses based on the value of the
device's SecurityRisk , including blocking provisioning, wiping corporate data, and allowing
enrollment to proceed.
The EMM service will enforce this policy response for the result of
each integrity check.
Note: Default option must not be to allow enrollment to proceed.
2.9.4. Deliberately blank.
2.10. Verify Apps enforcement
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
IT admins can turn on Verify Apps on devices. Verify Apps scans apps installed on Android devices for harmful
software before and after they're installed, helping to ensure that malicious
apps can't compromise corporate data.
2.10.1. Verify Apps must be turned on by default using policy (Go to ensureVerifyAppsEnabled ).
2.11. Direct Boot support
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star star star star
The Android Management API supports this feature by default. No extra
implementation is required.
2.12. Hardware security management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.1+ remove_circle_outline star star star
IT admins can lock down hardware elements of a company-owned device to ensure
data-loss prevention.
2.12.1. IT admins can block users from mounting physical external media using policy (go to mountPhysicalMediaDisabled ).
2.12.2. IT admins can block users from sharing data from their device using NFC
beam using policy (go to outgoingBeamDisabled ). This subfeature is optional since NFC beam
function is no longer supported in Android 10 and higher.
2.12.3. IT admins can block users from transferring files over USB using policy (go to usbFileTransferDisabled ).
2.13. Enterprise security logging
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border star_border
The Android Management API doesn't support this feature.
3. Account and app management
3.1. Enterprise binding
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
IT admins can bind the EMM to their organization, allowing the EMM to use
managed Google Play to distribute apps to devices.
3.1.1. An admin with an existing managed Google Domain can bind their domain to
the EMM.
3.1.2. Deliberately blank.
3.1.3. Deliberately blank.
3.1.4. The EMM console guides the admin to enter their work email address in the
Android signup flow and discourages them from using a Gmail account.
3.1.5. The EMM pre-fills the admin's email address in the Android signup flow.
3.2. Managed Google Play Account provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star remove_circle_outline
The EMM can silently provision enterprise user accounts, called managed Google
Play accounts. These accounts identify managed users and allow unique, per-user
app distribution rules.
3.2.1. Managed Google Play Accounts (user accounts) are automatically created
when devices are provisioned.
The Android Management API supports this feature by default. No extra
implementation is required.
3.3. Managed Google Play device account provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star
The EMM can create and provision managed Google Play device accounts. Device
accounts support silently installing apps from the managed Google Play Store,
and are not tied to a single user. Instead, a device account is used to identify
a single device to support app distribution rules per device in dedicated device
scenarios.
3.3.1. Managed Google Play Accounts are automatically created when devices are
provisioned.
The Android Management API supports this feature by default. No extra
implementation is required.
3.4. Managed Google Play Account provisioning for legacy devices
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
This feature is deprecated.
3.5. Silent app distribution
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
IT admins can silently distribute work apps on devices without any user
interaction.
3.5.1. The EMM's console must use the Android Management API to allow IT admins to install work apps on managed devices.
3.5.2. The EMM's console must use the Android Management API to allow IT admins to update work apps on managed devices.
3.5.3. The EMM's console must use the Android Management API to allow IT admins to uninstall apps on managed devices.
3.6. Managed configuration management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
IT admins can view and silently set managed configurations for any app that
supports managed configurations.
3.6.1. The EMM's console must be able to retrieve and display the managed configuration settings of any Play app.
3.6.2. The EMM's console must allow IT admins to set any configuration type (as
defined by the Android Enterprise framework) for any Play app using the Android Management
API .
3.6.3. The EMM's console must allow IT admins to set wildcards (such as
$username$ or %emailAddress%) so that a single configuration for an app such as
Gmail can be applied to multiple users.
3.7. App catalog management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
The Android Management API supports this feature by default. No
additional implementation is required.
3.8. Programmatic app approval
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star_border
The EMM's console uses the managed Google Play iframe to support Google Play's
app discovery and approval capabilities. IT admins can search for apps,
approve apps, and approve new app permissions without leaving the EMM's console.
3.8.1. IT admins can search for apps and approve them within the EMM's console
using the managed Google Play iframe .
3.9. Basic store layout management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star remove_circle_outline
The managed Google Play Store app can be used to install and update work apps.
By default, the managed Google Play Store displays apps approved for a user in
a single list. This layout is referred to as basic store layout .
3.9.1. The EMM's console should allow IT admins to manage the apps visible in an end user's basic store layout.
3.10. Advanced store layout configuration
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star_border star_border star_border remove_circle_outline
3.10.1. IT admins can customize the store layout seen in the managed Google Play Store app.
3.11. App license management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
This feature is deprecated.
3.12. Google-hosted private app management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
IT admins can update Google-hosted private apps through the EMM console instead
of through the Google Play Console.
3.12.1. IT admins can upload new versions of apps that are already published
privately to the enterprise using:
The managed Google Play iframe , or
the Google Play Developer Publishing API .
3.13. Self-hosted private app management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star_border star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can set up and publish self-hosted private apps. Unlike
Google-hosted private apps, Google Play does not host the APKs. Instead,
the EMM helps IT admins host APKs themselves, and helps protect self-hosted
apps by ensuring they can only be installed when authorized by managed Google
Play.
3.13.1. The EMM's console must help IT admins host the app APK, by offering both
of the following options:
Hosting the APK on the EMM's server. The server can be on-premise or
cloud-based.
Hosting the APK outside of the EMM's server, at the discretion of the
enterprise. The IT admin must specify in the EMM console where the
APK is hosted.
3.13.2. The EMM's console must generate an appropriate APK definition
file using the provided APK
and must guide IT admins through the publishing process.
3.13.3. IT admins can update self-hosted private apps, and the EMM's console
can silently publish updated APK definition files using the Google Play
Developer Publishing API .
3.13.4. The EMM's server serves download requests for the self-hosted APK
that contains a valid JWT within the request's cookie, as verified by the
private app's public key.
To facilitate this process, the EMM's server must guide IT admins to
download the self-hosted app's license public key from the Play Google
Play Console, and upload this key to the EMM console.
3.14. EMM pull notifications
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
This feature is not applicable to the Android Management API. Set up
Pub/Sub notifications instead.
3.15. API usage requirements
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
The EMM implements Android Management APIs at scale, avoiding traffic
patterns that could negatively impact enterprises' ability to manage apps in
production environments.
3.15.1. The EMM must adhere to the Android Management API usage limits. Not correcting behavior that exceeds these guidelines may
result in suspension of API use, at Google's discretion.
3.15.2. The EMM should distribute traffic from different enterprises throughout
the day, rather than consolidating enterprise traffic at specific or similar
times. Behavior that fits this traffic pattern, such as scheduled batch
operations for each device enrolled, may result in suspending API use, at
Google's discretion.
3.15.3. The EMM shouldn't make consistent, incomplete, or deliberately incorrect
requests that make no attempt to retrieve or manage actual enterprise data.
Behavior that fits this traffic pattern may result in suspended API use, at
Google's discretion.
3.16. Advanced managed configuration management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
The EMM supports the following advanced managed configuration management
features:
3.16.1. The EMM's console must be able to retrieve and display the up to four
levels of nested managed configuration settings of any Play app, using:
The managed Google Play iframe , or
a custom UI.
3.16.2. The EMM's console must be able to retrieve and display any feedback returned by an app's feedback channel , when set up by an IT admin.
The EMM's console must allow IT admins to associate a specific feedback item
with the device and app it originated from.
The EMM's console must allow IT admins to subscribe to alerts or reports of
specific message types (such as error messages).
3.16.3. The EMM's console must only send values that either have a default value or are manually set by the admin using:
The managed configurations iframe, or
A custom UI.
3.17. Web app management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
IT admins can create and distribute web apps in the EMM console.
3.17.1. The EMM console allows IT admins to distribute shortcuts to web apps
using:
The Managed Google Play iframe ,
or the Android Management API .
3.18. Managed Google Play Account lifecycle management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
The EMM can create, update, and delete managed Google Play Accounts on
behalf of IT admins, and automatically recover from account expiration.
This feature is supported by default. No extra EMM implementation is
required.
3.19. Application track management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
3.19.1. IT Admins can pull a list of track IDs set by a developer for a particular app.
3.19.2. IT Admins can set devices to use a particular development track for an application.
3.20. Advanced application update management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
IT admins can allow apps to be updated immediately or postpone them from being
updated for 90 days.
3.20.1. IT admins can allow apps to use high-priority app updates to be updated when an update is ready.
3.20.2. IT admins can allow apps to have their app updates postponed for 90 days.
3.21. Provisioning methods management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
The EMM can generate provisioning configurations and present these to the IT
admin in a form ready for distribution to end users (such as QR code,
zero-touch configuration, Play Store URL).
3.22. Upgrade Enterprise binding
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
IT admins can upgrade the enterprise binding type to a managed Google Domain
enterprise, allowing the organization to access Google Account services and
features on enrolled devices.
3.22.1. The EMM console allows the IT admin to trigger the upgrade of an
existing managed Google Play Accounts enterprise to a managed Google Domain
enterprise using the requisite APIs .
3.22.2. EMMs should use Pub/Sub to receive notifications about IT
admin-initiated upgrade events (even those occurring outside the EMM console)
and update their UI to reflect these changes.
3.23. Managed Google Account provisioning
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star remove_circle_outline
The EMM can provision a device with enterprise user accounts , called managed Google Accounts.
These accounts identify managed users and allow app distribution rules, and
allow access to Google services. IT admins can additionally set policy to require managed Google Account authentication during or after enrollment.
3.23.1. The EMM can provision a managed Google Account according to the defined implementation guidelines .
In doing so:
A managed Google Account is added to the device.
The managed Google Account must have a 1 to 1 mapping with actual users in
the EMM's console.
3.23.2. The IT admin can use the policy to provide users the option to sign in
to a managed Google Account for enrollment.
3.23.3. The IT admin can use the policy to control whether the user is required
to sign in to a managed Google Account to complete enrollment.
3.23.4. IT admins can optionally restrict the upgrade flow to a specific account
identifier (email address) for a given device.
3.24. Managed Google Play Account upgrade
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
remove_circle_outline star star star star
IT admins can upgrade the user
account type to a managed Google Account, allowing the device to access Google Account
services and features on enrolled devices.
3.24.1. IT admins can upgrade an existing managed Google Play Accounts on a
device to a managed Google Account.
3.24.2. IT admins can optionally restrict the upgrade flow to a specific account
identifier (email address) for a given device.
4. Device management
4.1. Runtime permission policy management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ star star star star
IT admins can silently set a default response to runtime permission requests
made by work apps.
4.1.1. IT admins must be able to choose from the following options when setting
a default runtime permission policy for their organization:
prompt (allows users to choose)
allow
deny
The EMM should enforce these settings using policy .
4.2. Runtime permission grant state management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ star star star star
After setting a default runtime permission policy (go to 4.1.), IT admins can
silently set responses for specific permissions from any work app built on API
23 or higher.
4.2.1. IT admins must be able to set the grant state (default, grant, or deny)
of any permission requested by any work app built on API 23 or higher. The EMM
should enforce these settings using policy .
4.3. Wi-Fi configuration management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ star star star star
IT admins can silently provision enterprise Wi-Fi configurations on managed
devices, including:
4.3.1. SSID, using policy .
4.3.2. Password, using policy .
4.4. Wi-Fi security management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ star star star star
IT admins can provision enterprise Wi-Fi configurations on devices that include the following advanced security
features:
4.4.1. Identity
4.4.2. Certificates for client authorization
4.4.3. CA certificates
4.5. Advanced Wi-Fi management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ remove_circle_outline star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can lock down Wi-Fi configurations on managed devices, to prevent
users from creating configurations or modifying corporate configurations.
4.5.1. IT admins can lock down corporate Wi-Fi configurations using policy in either
of the following configurations:
Users cannot modify any Wi-Fi configurations provisioned by the EMM (go to wifiConfigsLockdownEnabled ), but
may add and modify their own user-configurable networks (for example
personal networks).
Users cannot add or modify any Wi-Fi network on the device
(go to wifiConfigDisabled ), limiting Wi-Fi connectivity to just those
networks provisioned by the EMM.
4.6. Account management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star_border
IT admins can ensure that only authorized corporate accounts can interact with
corporate data, for services such as SaaS storage and productivity apps, or
email. Without this feature, users can add personal accounts to those
corporate apps that also support consumer accounts, enabling them to share
corporate data with those personal accounts.
4.6.1. IT admins can prevent users from adding or modifying
accounts (see modifyAccountsDisabled ).
When enforcing this policy on a device, EMMs must set this restriction
before provisioning is complete, to ensure users cannot circumvent this
policy by adding accounts before the policy is enacted.
4.7. Workspace account management
This feature is deprecated. See 3.23. for replacement requirements.
4.8. Certificate management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star star
Allows IT admins to deploy identity certificates and certificate authorities to
devices to allow use of corporate resources.
4.8.1. IT admins can install user identity certs generated by their PKI on a per-user basis. The EMM's console must integrate
with at least one PKI and distribute certificates generated from that
infrastructure.
4.8.2. IT admins can install certificate authorities (see caCerts ) in the managed keystore. However, this subfeature is unsupported
.
4.9. Advanced certificate management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star star star star
Allows IT admins to silently select the certificates that specific managed apps
should use. This feature also grants IT admins the ability to remove
CAs and identity certs from active devices, and prevent users from modifying
credentials stored in the managed keystore.
4.9.1. For any app distributed to devices, IT admins can specify a certificate
the app will be silently granted access during runtime. (This
subfeature is not supported)
Certificate selection must be generic enough to allow a single
configuration that applies to all users, each of which may have a
user-specific identity certificate.
4.9.2. IT admins can silently remove certificates from the managed keystore.
4.9.3. IT admins can silently uninstall a CA certificate. (This subfeature is
not supported)
4.9.4. IT admins can prevent users from configuring credentials (go to credentialsConfigDisabled ) in the managed keystore.
4.9.5. IT admins can pre-grant certificates for work apps using ChoosePrivateKeyRule .
4.10. Delegated certificate management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ star_border star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can distribute a third-party certificate management app to devices and
grant that app privileged access to install certificates into the managed
keystore.
4.10.1. IT admins can specify a certificate management package (go to CERT_INSTALL DelegatedScope) to be set as the delegated certificate
management app.
The EMM's may optionally suggest known certificate management packages,
but must allow the IT admin to choose from the list of apps available for
install, for applicable users.
4.11. Advanced VPN management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star star star star
Allows IT admins to specify an Always On VPN to ensure that the data from
specified managed apps will always go through a setup of the VPN.
Note: this feature requires deploying a VPN client that
supports both Always On and per-app VPN features.
4.11.1. IT admins can specify an arbitrary VPN package to be set as an Always On VPN.
The EMM's console may optionally suggest known VPN packages that support
Always On VPN, but can't restrict the VPNs available for Always On configuration
to any arbitrary list.
4.11.2. IT admins can use managed configurations to specify the VPN settings for
an app.
4.12. IME management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star_border star_border remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
IT admins can manage what input methods (IMEs) can be set up for
devices. Since the IME is shared across both work and personal profiles,
blocking use of IMEs will prevent users from allowing those IMEs for personal
use as well. IT admins may not, however, block use of system IMEs on work
profiles (go to advanced IME management for more details).
4.12.1. IT admins can set up an IME allowlist (Go to permitted_input_methods ) of arbitrary length (including an empty list,
which blocks non-system IMEs), which may contain any arbitrary IME packages.
The EMM's console may optionally suggest known or recommended IMEs to
include in the allowlist, but must allow IT admins to choose from the list
of apps available for install, for applicable users.
4.12.2. The EMM must inform IT admins that system IMEs are excluded from
management on devices with work profiles.
4.13. Advanced IME management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border star_border
IT admins can manage what input methods (IMEs) users can set up on a
device. Advanced IME management extends the basic feature by allowing IT admins
to manage the use of system IMEs as well, which device manufacturer
or carrier of the device typically provide.
4.13.1. IT admins can set up an IME allowlist (go to permitted_input_methods ) of arbitrary length (excluding an empty list,
which blocks all IMEs including system IMEs), which may contain any arbitrary
IME packages.
The EMM's console may optionally suggest known or recommended IMEs to
include in the allowlist, but must allow IT admins to choose from the list
of apps available for install, for applicable users.
4.13.2. EMM must prevent IT admins from setting up an empty allowlist, as this
setting will block all IMEs including system IMEs from being set up on the
device.
4.13.3. EMM must ensure that if an IME allowlist does not contain system IMEs,
the third-party IMEs are silently installed before the allowlist is applied
on the device.
4.14. Accessibility services management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star_border star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can manage what accessibility services users can allow on devices. Accessibility services are powerful tools for users
with disabilities or those that are temporarily unable to fully interact with a
device. However, they may interact with corporate data in ways that are
non-compliant with corporate policy. This feature allows IT admins to turn off
any non-system accessibility service.
4.14.1. IT admins can set up an accessibility service allowlist (go to permittedAccessibilityServices ) of arbitrary length (including an empty
list, which blocks non-system accessibility services), which may contain any
arbitrary accessibility service package. When applied to a work profile, this
affects both the personal profile and the work profile.
Console may optionally suggest known or recommended accessibility services
to include in the allowlist, but must allow IT admin to choose from
the list of apps available for install, for applicable users.
4.15. Location Sharing management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star_border star_border remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
IT admins can prevent users from sharing location data with apps in the work
profile. Otherwise, the location setting in the work profile is configurable in
Settings.
4.15.1. IT admins can disable location services (go to shareLocationDisabled ) within the work profile.
4.16. Advanced Location Sharing management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border star_border
IT admins can enforce a given Location Sharing setting on a managed device.
This feature can ensure that corporate apps always have high accuracy location
data. This feature can also ensure that extra battery is not consumed by
restricting location settings to battery saving mode.
4.16.1. IT admins can set the device location services to each of the following modes:
High accuracy.
Sensors only, for example GPS, but not including network-provided
location.
Battery saving, which limits the update frequency.
Off.
4.17. Factory reset protection management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.1+ remove_circle_outline star star star
Allows IT admins to protect company-owned devices from theft by ensuring
unauthorized users can't factory reset devices. If factory reset protection
introduces operational complexities when devices are returned to IT, IT admins
can turn off factory reset protection entirely.
4.17.1. IT admins can prevent users from factory resetting (go to factoryResetDisabled ) their device from Settings.
Note: Factory Reset cannot be prevented by IT admins on devices enrolled with a
Work profile, even if the device is company-owned.
4.17.2. IT admins can specify corporate unlock account(s) authorized to
provision devices (go to frpAdminEmails ) after a factory reset.
This account can be tied to an individual, or used by the entire enterprise
to unlock devices.
4.17.3. IT admins can disable factory reset protection (go to factoryResetDisabled ) for specified devices.
4.17.4. IT admins can start a remote device wipe that optionally wipes reset protection data, thus removing factory reset
protection on the reset device.
4.18. Advanced app control
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border star_border
IT admins can prevent the user from uninstalling or otherwise modifying managed
apps through Settings. For example, preventing force closing the app or
clearing an app's data cache.
4.18.1. IT admins can block uninstall of any arbitrary managed apps, or all
managed apps (go to uninstallAppsDisabled ).
4.18.2. IT admins can prevent users from modifying application data from Settings. (The Android Management API doesn't support this subfeature)
4.19. Screen capture management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star_border star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can block users from taking screenshots when using managed apps.
This setting includes blocking screen sharing apps and similar apps (such as
Google Assistant) that use the system screenshot capabilities.
4.19.1. IT admins can prevent users from capturing screenshots (go to screenCaptureDisabled ).
4.20. Disable cameras
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
Dependant remove_circle_outline 11.0+ star_border 5.0+ star_border 5.0+ star_border
IT admins can turn off use of device cameras by managed apps.
4.20.1. IT admins can disable use of device cameras (go to cameraDisabled ) by managed apps.
4.21. Network statistics collection
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ star_border star_border remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
The Android Management API doesn't support this feature.
4.22. Advanced network statistics collection
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border star_border
The Android Management API doesn't support this feature.
4.23. Reboot device
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border star
IT admins can remotely restart managed devices.
4.23.1. IT admins can remotely reboot a managed device.
4.24. System radio management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ remove_circle_outline star_border star_border star_border
Provides IT admins with granular management over system network radios and
associated use policies using policy .
4.24.1. IT admins can turn off cell broadcasts sent by service
providers (go to cellBroadcastsConfigDisabled ).
4.24.2. IT admins can prevent users from modifying mobile network settings in
Settings (go to mobileNetworksConfigDisabled ).
4.24.3. IT admins can prevent users from resetting all network settings in
Settings. (go to networkResetDisabled ).
4.24.4. IT admins can set up whether the device permits mobile data
while roaming (go to dataRoamingDisabled ).
4.24.5. IT admins can set up whether the device can make outgoing phone
calls, excluding emergency calls (go to outGoingCallsDisabled ).
4.24.6. IT admins can set up whether the device can send and receive text
messages (go to smsDisabled ).
4.24.7. IT admins can prevent users from using their device as a portable
hotspot by tethering (go to tetheringConfigDisabled ).
4.24.8. IT admins can set the Wi-Fi timeout to default, while plugged in, or
never. (The Android Management API doesn't support this subfeature)
4.24.9. IT admins can prevent users from setting up or modifying existing
Bluetooth connections (go to bluetoothConfigDisabled ).
4.25. System audio management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border star_border
IT admins can silently control device audio features ,
including muting the device, preventing users from modifying volume settings,
and preventing users from unmuting the device microphone.
4.25.1. IT admins can silently mute managed devices. (The Android Management API doesn't support this subfeature)
4.25.2. IT admins can prevent users from modifying device volume
settings (go to adjustVolumeDisabled ). This also mutes the devices.
4.25.3. IT admins can prevent users from unmuting the device
microphone (go to unmuteMicrophoneDisabled ).
4.26. System clock management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
Dependant 8.0+ star_border 11.0+ star_border 5.0+ star_border 5.0+ star_border
IT admins can manage device clock and time zone settings, and prevent users from
modifying automatic device settings.
4.26.1. IT admins can enforce system auto time and auto time zone ,
preventing the user from setting the date, time, and time zone of
the device.
4.27. Advanced dedicated device features
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star
For dedicated devices, IT admins can manage the following features using policy to support
various kiosk use cases.
4.27.1. IT admins can turn off the device keyguard (go to keyguardDisabled ).
4.27.2. IT admins can turn off the device status bar, blocking notifications and
Quick Settings (go to statusBarDisabled ).
4.27.3. IT admins can force the device screen to remain on while the device is
plugged in (go to stayOnPluggedModes ).
4.27.4. IT admins can prevent the following system UIs from being displayed (go to createWindowsDisabled ):
Toasts
Application overlays.
4.27.5. IT admins can allow the system recommendation for apps to skip their
user tutorial and other introductory hints on first start-up (go to skip_first_use_hints ).
4.28. Delegated scope management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
8.0+ star star star star
IT admins are able to delegate extra privileges to individual packages.
4.28.1. IT admins can manage the following scopes :
Certificate installation and management
Deliberately blank
Network logging
Security logging (not supported for work profile on personally-owned device)
4.29. Enrollment-specific ID Support
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
12.0+ star star remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
Starting in Android 12, work profiles will no longer have access to
hardware-specific identifiers. IT admins can follow the lifecycle of a device
with a work profile through the enrollment-specific ID, which will persist
through factory resets.
4.29.1. IT admins can obtain an enrollment-specific ID
4.29.2. This enrollment-specific ID must persist through a factory reset
4.30. Credential manager policy
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
14.0+ star star star star
IT admins can manage which credential manager applications are allowed or
blocked using the credential provider policy default or the credential provider policy .
4.30.1 IT admins can block all credential managers on the device (or within the
Work profile) using policy.
4.30.2 IT admins can specify allowing only pre-loaded (system apps) credential
managers.
4.30.3 IT admins can specify a list of package names to enable credential
manager functionality.
4.31. Basic eSIM management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
15.0+ star star star star
Allows IT admins to provision a device with an eSIM profile and manage its
lifecycle on the device.
4.31.1 IT admins can silently provision an eSIM profile onto a device using
policy.
4.31.2 IT admins can delete managed eSIMs from a device using policy.
4.31.3 IT admins can prevent users from modifying mobile network settings in
Settings (go to mobileNetworksConfigDisabled ).
Note: This is a duplicate of 4.24.2.
4.31.4 IT admins can remotely send a wipe command to a device or work profile.
This command optionally removes managed eSIMs from the device. By default,
managed eSIMs are removed from work profiles on personally-owned devices, but
retained on company-owned devices.
4.31.5 IT admins can retrieve the EID (Embedded Identity Document) identifier of
a device using the EMM console UI (or equivalent method).
5. Device usability
5.1. Managed provisioning customization
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star_border star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can modify the default setup flow UX to include
enterprise-specific features. Optionally, IT admins can display EMM-provided
branding during provisioning.
5.1.1. IT admins can customize the provisioning process by specifying enterprise-specific Terms of Service and other disclaimers (go to termsAndConditions ).
5.1.2. IT admins can deploy non-configurable, EMM-specific Terms of Service and other disclaimers
(go to termsAndConditions ).
EMMs may set their non-configurable, EMM-specific customization as the
default for deployments, but must allow IT admins to set up their own
customization.
5.1.3. primaryColor has been deprecated for the enterprise resource on Android
10 and higher.
5.2. Enterprise customization
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star_border star_border remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
The Android Management API doesn't support this feature.
5.3. Advanced enterprise customization
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border remove_circle_outline
The Android Management API doesn't support this feature.
5.4. Lock screen messages
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ remove_circle_outline star_border star_border star_border
IT admins can set a custom message that's always displayed on the device lock
screen, and does not require device unlock to be viewed.
5.4.1. IT admins can set a custom lock screen message (go to deviceOwnerLockScreenInfo ).
5.5. Policy transparency management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star star star star
IT admins can customize the help text provided to users when they attempt to
modify managed settings on their device, or deploy an EMM-supplied generic
support message. Both short and long support messages can be customized, and are
displayed in instances such as attempting to uninstall a managed app for which
an IT admin has already blocked uninstallation.
5.5.1. IT admins can customize short and long user-facing support
messages .
5.5.2. IT admins can deploy non-configurable, EMM-specific, short and long
support messages (go to shortSupportMessage and longSupportMessage in policies ).
EMM may set their non-configurable, EMM-specific support messages as the
default for deployments, but must allow IT admins to set up their own
messages.
5.6. Cross-profile contact management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star_border star_border remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
5.6.1. IT admins can disable displaying work contacts in personal profile
contact searches and incoming calls .
5.6.2. IT admins can disable bluetooth contact sharing of work contacts, for example hands-free calling in cars or headsets.
5.7. Cross-profile data management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star_border star_border remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
Allows IT admins to manage the types of data that can be shared between the work
and personal profiles, allowing admins to balance usability and data security
according to their requirements.
5.7.1. IT admins can configure cross-profile data sharing policy so that personal apps can resolve intents from the work profile, such as sharing
intents or web links.
5.7.2. IT admins can allow applications from the work profile to create and
display widgets on the home screen of the personal profile. This capability
is turned off by default, but can be set to allowed using workProfileWidgets and workProfileWidgetsDefault fields.
5.7.3. IT admins can control the ability to copy/paste between the work and personal profiles .
5.8. System update policy
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ remove_circle_outline star star star
IT admins can set up and apply over-the-air (OTA) system updates
devices.
5.8.1. The EMM's console allows IT admins to set the following OTA
configurations:
Automatic: Devices install OTA updates when they become available.
Postpone: IT admins must be able to postpone OTA update for up to 30
days. This policy does not affect security updates (e.g. monthly security
patches).
Windowed: IT admins must be able to schedule OTA updates within a daily
maintenance window.
5.8.2. OTA configurations are applied to devices using policy .
5.9. Lock task mode management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
6.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star
IT admins can lock an app or set of apps to the screen, and ensure that users
can't exit the app.
5.9.1. The EMM's console allows IT admins to silently allow an arbitrary set of
apps to install and lock to a device. Policy allows setting up dedicated devices.
5.10. Persistent preferred activity management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star_border star_border star_border star_border
Allows IT admins to set an app as the default intent handler for intents that
match a certain intent filter. For example, this feature would allow IT admins
to choose which browser app automatically opens web links. This feature can
manage which launcher app is used when tapping the home button.
5.10.1. IT admins can set any package as the default intent handler for any arbitrary intent filter.
The EMM's console may optionally suggest known or recommended intents for
configuration, but cannot restrict intents to any arbitrary list.
The EMM's console must allow IT admins to choose from the list of apps
that are available to install for applicable users.
5.11. Keyguard feature management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ star star remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
IT admins can manage the features available to users before unlocking the
device keyguard (lock screen) and the work challenge keyguard (lock screen).
5.11.1. Policy can turn off the following device keyguard features:
trust agents
fingerprint unlock
unredacted notifications
5.11.2. The following keyguard features of the work profile can be turned off
using policy :
trust agents
fingerprint unlock
5.12. Advanced keyguard feature management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ remove_circle_outline star star star_border
IT admins can manage advanced device keyguard (lock screen) features on
company-owned devices.
5.12.1. IT admins can turn off the following device keyguard features using policy :
Secure camera
All notifications
Unredacted
Trust agents
Fingerprint unlock
All keyguard features
5.13. Remote debugging
The Android Management API doesn't support this feature.
5.14. MAC address retrieval
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
7.0+ remove_circle_outline star_border star_border star_border
EMMs can silently fetch a device's MAC address, to be used to identify devices
in other parts of the enterprise infrastructure (for example when identifying
devices for network access control).
5.14.1. The EMM can silently retrieve a device's MAC address and can associate it with the device in the EMM's console.
5.15. Advanced lock task mode management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
9.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star
With a dedicated device, IT admins can use the EMM's
console to perform the following tasks:
5.15.1. Silently allow a single app to install and lock to a device .
5.15.2. Turn on or off the following System UI features:
Home button
Overview
Global actions
Notifications
System info / Status bar
Keyguard (lock screen). This subfeature is turned on by default when
5.15.1. is implemented.
5.15.3. Turn off System error dialogs .
5.16. Advanced system update policy
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
9.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star
IT admins can set a specified freeze period for blocking system updates on a device.
5.16.1. The EMM's console must allow IT admins to block over-the-air (OTA)
system updates for a specified freeze period .
5.17. Work profile policy transparency management
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
9.0+ star star remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
IT admins can customize the message displayed to users when removing the work
profile from a device.
5.17.1. IT admins can provide custom text to display (go to wipeReasonMessage ) when a work profile is wiped.
5.18. Connected app support
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
11.0+ star star remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline
IT admins can set a list of packages that can communicate across the
work profile boundary by setting ConnectedWorkAndPersonalApp .
5.19. Manual system update
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
11.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star_border
The Android Management API doesn't support this feature.
6. Device Admin Deprecation
6.1. Device Admin Deprecation
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ remove_circle_outline remove_circle_outline star star
EMMs are required to post a plan by the end of 2022 ending customer support for Device Admin on GMS devices by the end of Q1 2023.
7. API usage
7.1. Standard policy controller for new bindings
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star star star_border star_border
By default devices must be managed using Android Device Policy for any new
bindings. EMMs may provide the option to manage devices using a custom DPC in a
settings area under a heading 'Advanced' or similar terminology. New customers
must not be exposed to an arbitrary choice between technology stacks during any
onboarding or setup workflows.
7.2. Standard policy controller for new devices
Android version Work profile on personally‑owned device Work profile on company‑owned device Fully managed device Dedicated device
5.0+ star_border star_border star_border star_border
By default devices must be managed using Android Device Policy for all new
device enrollments, for both existing and new bindings. EMMs may provide the
option to manage devices using a custom DPC in a settings area under a heading
'Advanced' or similar terminology.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License , and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License . For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies . Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2026-04-21 UTC.
Need to tell us more? [[["Easy to understand","easyToUnderstand","thumb-up"],["Solved my problem","solvedMyProblem","thumb-up"],["Other","otherUp","thumb-up"]],[["Missing the information I need","missingTheInformationINeed","thumb-down"],["Too complicated / too many steps","tooComplicatedTooManySteps","thumb-down"],["Out of date","outOfDate","thumb-down"],["Samples / code issue","samplesCodeIssue","thumb-down"],["Other","otherDown","thumb-down"]],["Last updated 2026-04-21 UTC."],[],[]]
EMM Community
Join the Android EMM developer community
Android Videos
Visit the Android Developers Channel
Android Enterprise Info
For Enterprise Customers
For App Developers
For OEMs
Resources
APIs and Tools
Google Play Services
Google Play Console
Downloads
Install the Android SDK
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google Cloud Platform
Google AI
All products
Terms
Privacy
Manage cookies
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Polski
Português – Brasil
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Русский
עברית
العربيّة
فارسی
हिंदी
বাংলা
ภาษาไทย
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
