Google Play Protect - Android Enterprise Help Skip to main content
Android Enterprise Help
Sign in
Google Help
Help Center
Get Started
Set up your organization’s devices
Manage your organization's devices
Distribute your organization’s apps
Device users or employees
FAQs & Troubleshooting
Additional resources
Community
Android Enterprise
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Submit feedback
Send feedback on...
This help content & information
General Help Center experience
Next
Help Center
Community
Announcements
Android Enterprise
Get Started
Choose a management solution (EMM) Understanding different management sets
Set up your organization’s devices
Choose a management option for your deployment
Manage your organization's devices
Learn about work profile on personal devices Understanding Zero-touch enrollment Protecting company-owned devices Network environments & VPN Advanced management options
Distribute your organization’s apps
Understanding Managed Google Play Manage public apps Manage private apps Manage system apps Create your own web apps Explore advanced app management App hosting for private apps Publish private apps Use managed Google Play on your device
Device users or employees
Learn about work profile Use managed Google Play on your device
FAQs & Troubleshooting
Additional resources
Google Play Protect
Google Play Protect runs safety checks on apps from the Google Play Store, scans for malware, and issues warnings or removes harmful apps. It sends privacy alerts about apps violating policies and may reset app permissions or block suspicious app installations.
How Google Play Protect works
When a user installs an app, Google Play Protect automatically scans it for malware. It also conducts periodic device scans for safety. If Google Play Protect detects a potentially harmful app, it will send the user a notification. In most cases, if a harmful app has been detected, the user will receive a notification informing them that the app has been automatically removed from their device.
With an EMM, IT admins can enforce that Google Play Protect is enabled on managed devices and be notified if a potentially harmful app has been detected on a user's device.
Note: Google Play Protect scans all installed apps on the device including apps that were either sideloaded or installed through an EMM.
Google Play Protect Warnings
There are various GPP warnings that may be encountered by users. The following are the reasons why an app is affected by a GPP warning:
App blocked to protect your device
Apps downloaded directly from online sources like web browsers, messaging apps, or file managers often seek permission to access sensitive information, such as messages and notifications. These sensitive permissions can be misused for financial fraud. GPP automatically blocks installing these apps.
Harmful App Blocked
To preserve a malware-free Android experience, the app being blocked has been recognized as potentially harmful and falls under the category of malware.
App Scan Recommended
To decrease the likelihood of malicious applications being installed on a user's device, GPP conducts security checks before installation.
Android App Compatibility Too Low Warning
If the app's Android OS version is more than two versions below the latest version, it will receive a GPP warning. This means that the app was built for an older version of Android and lacks the latest privacy protections.
Send App for Security Check
GPP has not yet scanned the app for potential malware. Once the app has been scanned, this warning will go away.
This prompt will not appear on fully managed devices or in Work Profile. Users can still receive this prompt for apps in the personal profile.
Appeals
Appeal App Status on Play Store
If an app is removed from the Google Play Store, there is an option to appeal. Apps can be reinstated in appropriate circumstances including if an error was made and they don't violate the Google Play Developer Program Policies or the Play Developer Distribution Agreement .
For more information on appealing a policy violation, see My app has been removed from Google Play .
Appeal Play Protect Warning Status
Google Play Protect classification statuses can be appealed and corrected in appropriate circumstances, such as when an error is made and the app complies with Mobile Unwanted Software principles and is not classified as a Potentially Harmful Application .
To ensure a successful appeal, make sure the app aligns with the above policies. If the app is still blocked in error, click the File a Play Protect appeal button below.
File a Play Protect appeal
Related resources
Use Google Play Protect to help keep your apps safe & your data private
Developer Guidance for Google Play Protect Warnings
Was this helpful?
How can we improve it?
Yes No
Submit
Need more help?
Try these next steps:
Post to the help community Get answers from community members
true
Help
1 of 16
Approved Android Enterprise device policy controllers allowlist
2 of 16
Android 15 FAQs
3 of 16
Google Play Protect
4 of 16
General FAQs
5 of 16
Google Play Protect Service
6 of 16
Enable enterprise factory reset protection
7 of 16
Android 14 FAQs
8 of 16
What is Android Device Policy?
9 of 16
Is Android Enterprise available in my country?
10 of 16
What is a device policy controller?
11 of 16
I have a conflicting account
12 of 16
I can’t verify my domain
13 of 16
I can’t change certain device settings
14 of 16
Contact your EMM for support
15 of 16
I can’t back up my Managed Google Account on an Android device
16 of 16
I am unable to access the zero-touch customer portal
©2026 Google
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Language Deutsch‎ español‎ français‎ Indonesia‎ italiano‎ Nederlands‎ polski‎ português (Brasil)‎ svenska‎ Türkçe‎ русский‎ ‏ العربية ไทย‎ 中文（繁體）‎ 日本語‎ 한국어‎ English‎
Enable Dark Mode
Send feedback on...
This help content & information General Help Center experience
Search
Clear search
Close search
Google apps
Main menu
2790615119380892483
true
Search Help Center
false
true
true
true
true
true
108584
false
false
false
false
